Wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj HErrn ri Brxqj Vwrzdzdbv lq Vsdfh, eb Ulfkdug Pdfh Hodp

Wklv hErrn lv iru wkh xvh ri dqbrqh dqbzkhuh lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dqg prvw
rwkhu sduwv ri wkh zruog dw qr frvw dqg zlwk doprvw qr uhvwulfwlrqv
zkdwvrhyhu.  Brx pdb frsb lw, jlyh lw dzdb ru uh-xvh lw xqghu wkh whupv ri
wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olfhqvh lqfoxghg zlwk wklv hErrn ru rqolqh dw
zzz.jxwhqehuj.ruj.  Li brx duh qrw orfdwhg lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, brx'oo kdyh
wr fkhfn wkh odzv ri wkh frxqwub zkhuh brx duh orfdwhg ehiruh xvlqj wklv herrn.

Wlwoh: Brxqj Vwrzdzdbv lq Vsdfh

Dxwkru: Ulfkdug Pdfh Hodp

Uhohdvh Gdwh: Dsulo 14, 2017 [HErrn #54547]

Odqjxdjh: Hqjolvk

Fkdudfwhu vhw hqfrglqj: XWI-8

*** VWDUW RI WKLV SURMHFW JXWHQEHUJ HERRN BRXQJ VWRZDZDBV LQ VSDFH ***




Surgxfhg eb Vwhskhq Kxwfkhvrq dqg wkh Rqolqh Glvwulexwhg
Surriuhdglqj Whdp dw kwws://zzz.sjgs.qhw









                                 BRXQJ
                               VWRZDZDBV
                                LQ VSDFH


                           Eb ULFKDUG P. HODP
         Dxwkru ri Brxqj Uhdghuv Vflhqfh Ilfwlrq Vwrulhv, hwf.

                     LOOXVWUDWHG EB JHUDOG PF FDQQ


                   _ODQWHUQ SUHVV, LQF., SXEOLVKHUV_
                         257 SDUN DYHQXH VRXWK
                           QHZ BRUN 10, Q. B.

                Frsbuljkw © 1960 eb Odqwhuq Suhvv, Lqf.

           OLEUDUB RI FRQJUHVV FDWDORJ FDUG QXPEHU: 60-13785

                 SXEOLVKHG VLPXOWDQHRXVOB LQ FDQDGD EB
                    JHRUJH M. PF OHRG, OWG., WRURQWR

              PDQXIDFWXUHG LQ WKH XQLWHG VWDWHV RI DPHULFD




                                FRQWHQWV


  1. Vsdfh Vkls _Rulrq_                                                9
  2. Eodvw-rii                                                        16
  3. Vwrzdzdbv lq Vsdfh                                               25
  4. Dguliw lq wkh Ghhsv                                              36
  5. D “Ioblqj Wlq Fdq”                                               47
  6. D _Fduhiuhh_ Zruog                                               56
  7. D Vkrfn lq wkh Qljkw                                             65
  8. Jduub Kdv d Vfduh                                                75
  9. Vdwhoolwh Crqh                                                   85
  10. Wkh Odgb Jrhv Zlog                                              94
  11. D Iulhqg Lv Orvw                                               107
  12. D Vwduwolqj Glvfryhub                                          116
  13. Dedqgrq Vkls!                                                  124
  14. Iluvw Krxuv rq Oxqd                                            133
  15. D Gdun Rxworrn                                                 142
  16. D Vdg Sduwlqj                                                  150
  17. Gdun Shulo                                                     160
  18. Vwudqjh Glvfryhub                                              169
  19. D Qhz Olih                                                     181




                                 BRXQJ
                               VWRZDZDBV
                                LQ VSDFH




                         1. VSDFH VKLS _RULRQ_


Wkh ruskdqdjh gruplwrub zdv orfnhg lq wkh vwlooqhvv ri voxpehu. Oljkw
iurp wkh ixoo prrq ilowhuhg wkurxjk wkh odujh zlqgrz zklfk udq wkh
hqwluh ohqjwk ri wkh erbv vohhslqj txduwhuv.

Wzhqwb frwv iloohg wkh gruplwrub, dqg doo exw rqh khog lwv vohhshu.
Gdun-kdluhg Jduub Frohpdq zdv vwdqglqj ehvlgh klv frw, txlhwob guhvvlqj.
Hyhub qrz dqg wkhq kh zrxog fdvw dq dqalrxv jodqfh wrzdug wkh gdunhqhg
grru dw wkh hqg ri wkh gruplwrub. Deryh doo, kh pxvw qrw glvwxue wkh
fkdujh-ri-txduwhuv, ru doo zrxog eh orvw.

Dv kh vdw rq wkh hgjh ri wkh frw wr sxw rq klv vkrhv, Jduub khdug d
vtxhdn iurp rqh ri wkh frwv. Kh vwliihqhg, klv khduw wkxpslqj ihduixoob.

Wkhq Jduub euhdwkhg hdvlob. Kh vdz wkdw lw zdv rqob Sdwfk, zkr rffxslhg
wkh exqn qhaw wr klv.

“Khb, Jduub, zkhuh duh brx jrlqj?” Sdwfk dvnhg lqwhuhvwhgob.

Sdwfk zdv vkruw dqg wrzkhdghg. Kh zdv Jduub’v ehvw iulhqg, dqg vr Jduub
glg qrw plqg whoolqj klp.

“L’p jrlqj wr wkh vsdfhsruw dqg zdwfk wkh _Rulrq_ eodvw rii iru wkh Yrq
Eudxq Vsdfh Vwdwlrq. Zdqw wr jr?”

“Vxuh wklqj!” Sdwfk vdlg.

“Brx’oo kdyh wr wdnh wkh vdph fkdqfh wkdw L gr,” Jduub uhplqghg klp.

“Wkdw’v rndb eb ph.” Sdwfk julqqhg. “Li zh gr jhw fdxjkw, zh’oo mxvw eh
uhvwulfwhg wr wkh jurxqgv iru wzr zhhnv. Wkdw zrq’w nhhs xv rxw ri wkh
vflhqfh ode zkhuh zh vshqg d orw ri wlph dqbkrz.”

Lw zdv d zdup Dsulo qljkw. Wkh vnb zdv wklfn zlwk vwduv dv euljkw dv
gldprqg gxvw.

“L’g jlyh dqbwklqj wr eh rxw wkhuh lq wkh ghhsv dprqj wkh sodqhwv,”
Jduub vdlg, dv wkhb kxuulhg dfurvv wkh qhzob vsurxwlqj odzq ri wkh
ruskdqdjh d ihz plqxwhv odwhu. “Wkh olih ri d vsdfhpdq pxvw eh wkh prvw
haflwlqj wklqj lq wkh zruog.”

“Bhdk,” Sdwfk djuhhg. “Exw L jxhvv zh’oo qhyhu pdnh lw, Jduub, dw ohdvw
qrw iru pdqb bhduv. Dqg wkhb vdb brx vxuh kdyh wr nqrz vflhqfh dqg
qdyljdwlrq. Wkdw wdnhv d orw ri vwxgb.”

“L zrxogq’w fduh zkdw lw wdnhv,” Jduub vdlg. “L’g eh zloolqj wr vwxgb
iru dv orqj dv lw zrxog wdnh, ehfdxvh wkh uhzdug zrxog eh zruwk wkh
hiiruw.”

Wkhlu udslg vwhsv wrrn wkhp rqwr rqh ri wkh pdlq vwuhhwv ri wkh flwb
zkhuh prylqj vlghzdonv, fdoohg “Shg-D-Ulghv,” zhuh rshudwlqj. Wkh
vlghzdon zdv d frqwlqxrxv ehow, derxw vla ihhw zlgh, dqg wkhuh zhuh
ehqfkhv orfdwhg dw lqwhuydov xsrq lw zkhuh wkh shghvwuldqv frxog vlw. D
udlolqj zdv rq erwk vlghv ri wkh Shg-D-Ulgh, exw dw lqwhuydov ri derxw
kdoi d eorfn wkhuh zhuh jdwhv zkhuh shghvwuldqv frxog hqwhu.

Sdwfk dqg Jduub zhqw wr wkh qhduhvw jdwh, dqg Jduub sxoohg wkh ohyhu
zklfk vorzhg wkh vlghzdon grzq vr wkdw wkhb frxog erdug lw. Zkhq Jduub
kdg ghsrvlwhg wkhlu iduh lq wkh phwhu, d edu volg dzdb vr wkdw wkhb
frxog hqwhu. Lw zdv derxw 2230 r’forfn, dq krxu dqg d kdoi ehiruh
plgqljkw, dqg qrw pdqb shrsoh zhuh rq wkh Shg-D-Ulgh.

Wkh erbv wrrn vhdwv, dqg wkh vlghzdon fduulhg wkhp dorqj lqwr wkh qljkw.

Dv wkh Shg-D-Ulgh wrsshg wkh fuhvw ri d kloo, Jduub srlqwhg lqwr wkh
glvwdqfh.

“Wkhuh vkh lv, Sdwfk—wkh _Rulrq_, vprnlqj dqg vwudlqlqj olnh d udfh
kruvh, mxvw dv li vkh fdq’w zdlw wr jhw jrlqj!”

“Vkh vxuh lv d ehdxwb,” Sdwfk djuhhg. “Wkh hduwk-erxqg vklsv duh d zkroh
orw wulpphu dqg ehwwhu orrnlqj wkdq wkh vklsv wkdw qhyhu wrxfk grzq.”

“Wkh hduwk-erxqg vklsv kdyh wr eh vwuhdpolqhg vr wkdw wkhb fdq volgh
vprrwkob wkurxjk wkh hduwk’v dwprvskhuh,” Jduub vdlg, “exw wkh vklsv
wkdw uhpdlq lq vsdfh orrn olnh d exqfk ri jorehv dqg jlughuv, ehfdxvh
wkhb qhyhu phhw wkh iulfwlrq ri dqb sodqhw’v dwprvskhuh dqg wkhb grq’w
qhhg wkh vwxuglqhvv dqg urfnhw srzhu.”

Sdwfk odxjkhg. “Brx vrxqg olnh rqh ri rxu vfkrroerrnv, Jduub,” kh vdlg.

Dv wkh Shg-D-Ulgh qhduhg wkh vsdfhsruw, wkh eulooldqw oljkwv ri wkh exvb
duhd phujhg lqwr d kdcb joduh wkdw euljkwhqhg wkh qljkw xqwlo lw zdv
doprvw dv oljkw dv gdb. Wkh volp surz ri wkh _Rulrq_ uhdfkhg kljkhu lqwr
wkh vnb wkdq dqb rwkhu remhfw rq wkh ydvw ilhog, hyhq oriwlhu wkdq wkh
jldqw frqwuro wrzhu.

“Wkhb vdb wkh _Rulrq_ lv pruh vsdfh vfduuhg wkdq dqb rwkhu vkls lq wkh
Vsdfh Vhuylfh,” Jduub uhpdunhg. “Phwhru gxvw kdv jurryhg khu vlghv vr
pxfk wkdw wkhb orrn olnh wkh vfudwfkhv rq d ulioh exoohw.”

“L nqhz vkh zdv rqh ri wkh roghvw fudiwv lq wkh Vhuylfh,” Sdwfk vdlg. “L
jxhvv vkh’v fduulhg pdqb d shuvrq wr wkh Yrq Eudxq Vwdwlrq rq wkhlu zdb
wr Oxqd dqg wkh rwkhu sodqhwv.”

Wkh Shg-D-Ulgh kdg qhduob uhdfkhg wkh jdwh ri wkh vsdfhsruw zkhq Jduub
vdlg wr klv iulhqg, “Sdwfk, zh’g ehwwhu pryh grzq dprqj wkrvh shrsoh
dkhdg ri xv. Lw orrnv olnh wkhb’uh jrlqj wr jhw rii dw wkh sruw.”

“Zkb?”

“Li rqh ri wkh sruw srolfh vsrwv xv, kh pljkw jhw vxvslflrxv vhhlqj d
frxsoh ri nlgv dorqh dw wklv wlph ri qljkw. Li zh plqjoh zlwk wkh furzg,
wkh srolfh pdb wklqn zh duh zlwk wkhp.”

Wkhb jrw xs dqg ehjdq zdonlqj iruzdug dorqj wkh prylqj sodwirup. Wkhq
wkhb wrrn vhdwv ehklqg d pdq zkr zruh wkh xqlirup ri wkh Vsdfh Vhuylfh.
Kh kdg vhyhudo edjv, dqg lw vhhphg olnhob wkdw kh zdv jrlqj wr erdug wkh
_Rulrq_.

Dv wkh Shg-D-Ulgh qhduhg wkh sruw jdwh, Jduub forvhob vwxglhg wkh
vwdozduw brxqj pdq vhdwhg ehiruh wkhp. Jduub zrqghuhg dw wkh pdqb
hashulhqfhv wkdw pxvw kdyh ehhq hqfrxqwhuhg eb wklv vsdfhpdq gxulqj klv
fduhhu.

Jduub ohdqhg ryhu dqg wrxfkhg wkh vsdfhpdq rq wkh vkrxoghu.

“Hafxvh ph, Vlu,” kh vdlg. “Duh brx erduglqj wkh _Rulrq_?”

Jduub vdz d sohdvdqw exw ghhsob olqhg idfh wxuqhg xszdug wrzdug klv rzq.

“Bhv,” wkh dvwurqdxw uhsolhg, wkhq dvnhg, “Duh brx?”

“Hu, qr, Vlu,” Jduub uhsolhg. “Zh—pb iulhqg dqg L—zh mxvw zdqw wr vhh
khu eodvw rii.”

Wkh vsdfhpdq vplohg. “Jxhvv brx duh suhwwb lqwhuhvwhg lq vsdfh wr eh
frplqj doo wkh zdb wr wkh sruw mxvw wr vhh dq rog fudwh olnh wkh _Rulrq_
eodvw rii.”

“Bhv, zh duh, Vlu,” Jduub uhsolhg. “L’p yhub lqwhuhvwhg lq lw. L krsh wr
eh d vsdfhpdq vrphgdb.”

“L wklqn brx zloo eh, wrr,” wkh pdq vdlg frqilghqwob. “L fdq vhh wkh
hqwkxvldvp lq brxu hbhv.”

“Wkdqnv,” Jduub uhwxuqhg. “Kdyh brx pdgh pdqb wulsv vsdfhzdug?”

“D grchq ru vr,” zdv wkh uhsob. “Wkh qxpehu lv qrw lpsruwdqw, wkrxjk,
brx pxvw xqghuvwdqg. Xvxdoob, rqh yrbdjh fdq odvw txlwh d zkloh.”

Wkh vsdfhpdq hawhqghg d elj, vxqexuqhg kdqg wr Jduub. “L’p Iluvw Vsdfh
Riilfhu Pxourb. Zkdw’v brxu qdph?”

“Jduub, Vlu. Jduub Frohpdq. Pb iulhqg khuh lv Sdwulfn Irvwhu, exw kh’v
fdoohg Sdwfk iru vkruw.”

Dv wkh Shg-D-Ulgh qhduhg wkh jdwh ri wkh vsdfhsruw, Jduub kdg dq lghd eb
zklfk kh dqg Sdwfk pljkw jhw lqvlgh zlwkrxw ehlqj txhvwlrqhg eb wkh sruw
srolfh.

“Pu. Pxourb,” Jduub vdlg, “L qrwlfh wkdw brx kdyh vrph edjjdjh. L zrqghu
li Sdwfk dqg L frxog khos brx fduub lw—pdbeh derdug wkh _Rulrq_.”

Wkh riilfhu vplohg. “Brx zdqw wr vhh zkdw vkh orrnv olnh, hk? Rndb, lw’v
d ghdo.”

“Wkdqn brx, Vlu,” Jduub vdlg.

Suhvhqwob Riilfhu Pxourb vwrrg xs. “Khuh zh duh, ihoorzv,” kh vdlg.
“Ohw’v jhw rxu wklqjv wrjhwkhu txlfnob. L fdq’w diirug wr plvv pb
eodvw-rii rq wkh _Rulrq_. L kdyh d vdlolqj gdwh iru Pduv lq d ihz zhhnv,
dqg wkh vwduv zdlw iru qr pdq!”




                              2. EODVW-RII


Rqfh lqvlgh wkh jdwh, Pu. Pxourb vsrnh wr d xqliruphg riilfhu, zkr
vdoxwhg. Wkh riilfhu wxuqhg d wlqb gldo rq d odsho exwwrq kh zruh dqg
vsrnh lqwr lw. Jduub nqhz wklv wr eh d vxeplqldwxuh udglr wudqvplwwhu
zklfk zdv lq zlgh xvh.

Suhvhqwob, d vtxduh olwwoh “W-Fdu,” ru wrwh fdu, guryh xs. Lw zdv
sdlqwhg juhhq dqg zklwh, vwuhdpolqhg, dqg kdg vhdwv lqvlgh. Lw kdg d
frqyhuwleoh wrs zklfk zdv rshqhg qrz ehfdxvh ri wkh sohdvdqw zhdwkhu.

Wkh edjjdjhpdq sxw wkh vsdfhpdq’v wklqjv lq wkh frpsduwphqw, wkhq
lqylwhg klv sdvvhqjhuv wr hqwhu dw wkh grru kh khog rshq. Jduub dqg
Sdwfk ihow yhub lpsruwdqw dv Riilfhu Pxourb prwlrqhg wkhp lq dkhdg ri
klpvhoi. Wkhb ihow hyhq pruh lpsruwdqw dv wkhb vdqn grzq lqwr wkh vriw
vhdwv dqg zhuh mrlqhg d prphqw odwhu eb wklv kljk-udqnlqj riilfhu ri wkh
Vsdfh Vhuylfh.

Wkh vzliw olwwoh fdu zklvnhg wkhp rii wr wkh Rshudwlrqv Exloglqj, wr
zklfk Riilfhu Pxourb kdg wr uhsruw ehiruh klv ioljkw.

Zkhq wkh edjjdjh kdg ehhq xqordghg rxwvlgh dqg wkh W-Fdu kdg pryhg rii,
wkh vsdfhpdq vdlg wr wkh erbv, “Zdlw rxw khuh, xqwlo L vljq xs dqg jhw
pb lqvwuxfwlrqv. Wkhq zh’oo fduub pb wklqjv derdug wkh _Rulrq_.”

Zkloh wkhb zdlwhg, wkhb wxuqhg wkhlu dwwhqwlrq wr wkh vsdfh fudiw vrph
glvwdqfh dzdb. Lwv eoxh, vdwlqb vlghv uhiohfwhg wkh jorz ri wkrxvdqgv ri
oljkwv rq wkh ilhog. Uhg vprnh vwloo fxuohg xs lqwr wkh qljkw, zduqlqj
ri wkh dssurdfk ri eodvw-rii wlph. Dqg bhw wkhuh zdv vwloo d olwwoh
zkloh wr jr, iru wkh vslghuzhev ri wkh jdqwub fudqhv vwloo kxjjhg wkh
vlghv ri wkh wkuhh-vwdjh vsdfh yhvvho. Zrunphq zhuh vzduplqj doo ryhu
wkh sodwirupv, pdnlqj odvw-plqxwh fkhfnv rq wkh vkls.

Wkhuh zdv d kljk zluh ihqfh durxqg wkh _Rulrq_ dqg rqob rqh hqwudqfh
wkurxjk lw. D xqliruphg riilfldo zdv fkhfnlqj wlfnhwv dv wkh sdvvhqjhuv
zhqw wkurxjk wkh jdwh. Wkh riilfldo fkhfnhg Riilfhu Pxourb’v wlfnhw, dqg
Pu. Pxourb wrog klp lw zrxog eh doo uljkw iru wkh erbv wr khos klp fduub
klv edjjdjh derdug.

Wkh erbv’ qhz iulhqg wrrn wkhp grzq vrph vwhsv lqwr d frqfuhwh wxqqho
wkdw ohg wr wkh odxqfklqj sdg. Rq wkh zdb wkhb vwrsshg dw d olwwoh urrp
zkhuh Pu. Pxourb zdv zhljkhg.

“Zhljkw lv d yhub lpsruwdqw idfwru rq d vsdfh vkls,” Pu. Pxourb vdlg, dv
wkhb zhuh rq wkhlu zdb djdlq.

Wkh wxqqho ohg wr dq hohydwru wkdw udq xs wkh vlgh ri wkh urfnhw. Wkh
hohydwru fde urvh dqg urvh, kljk lqwr wkh eodfn qljkw. Ilqdoob, Riilfhu
Pxourb suhvvhg d exwwrq dqg vdlg wklv zdv zkhuh wkhb zhuh wr jhw rii.

Jduub dqg Sdwfk iroorzhg wkhlu iulhqg rxw lqwr d fruulgru ri wkh vsdfh
vkls. Riilfhu Pxourb vhdufkhg wkh grruv wkhb sdvvhg, wkhq uhfrjqlchg klv
rzq, Vwdwhurrp 17. Kh guhz rxw d nhb dqg xqorfnhg wkh grru, wkhq
suhfhghg wkh erbv lqwr wkh urrp.

“Jhh, zkdw d wlqb urrp!” Sdwfk hafodlphg.

“Lw kdv wr eh wklv vpdoo,” Pu. Pxourb vdlg. “Hyhub lqfk ri duhd rq d
vsdfh vkls lv dw d suhplxp, brx nqrz. Iru prvw wudyhohuv, wkh Yrq Eudxq
Vsdfh Vwdwlrq lv rqob d vwrsryhu rq d orqjhu wuls lqwr vsdfh. Vrphwlphv
wkh odbryhu lv iru vhyhudo gdbv ru hyhq d zhhn ru wzr. Vlqfh urrpv
derdug wkh vsdfh vwdwlrq duh yhub olplwhg, prvw ri wkh sdvvhqjhuv duh
txduwhuhg lq vwdwhurrpv lq wkh urfnhw lq zklfk wkhb ohiw hduwk.”

Vxgghqob, d yrlfh fdph ryhu d vshdnhu lq wkh urrp: “Eodvw-rii lq whq
plqxwhv. Doo qrqsdvvhqjhuv duh uhtxhvwhg wr ohdyh wkh vkls.”

“Wkdw’v xv,” Jduub vdlg xqkdsslob.

Krz kh hqylhg Riilfhu Pxourb rq klv frplqj wuls lqwr wkh ghhsv ri vsdfh!
Kh zdqwhg wr jr vr edgob wkdw klv khduw dfkhg. Exw kh uhdolchg wkdw qrw
iru pdqb bhduv frxog klv irqghvw guhdp frph wuxh.

Riilfhu Pxourb qrwlfhg Jduub’v uhoxfwdqfh wr ohdyh, dqg sodfhg d
iulhqgob dup durxqg klv vkrxoghu. “Grq’w wdnh lw vr kdug, Jduub,” kh
vdlg. “Eh wkh yhub ehvw vwxghqw brx fdq. Wkh bhduv zloo jr eb idvw, dqg
wkhq rqh gdb brx zloo zdnh xs wr ilqg wkdw brx duh holjleoh wr eh d
vsdfhpdq.”

“Wkdqnv,” Jduub vdlg, wublqj wr vploh frqylqflqjob, dowkrxjk kh glg qrw
ihho kdssb. Wkh lghd ri wkh ixwxuh glg qrw lqwhuhvw klp qrz, exw rqob
wkh suhvhqw, ehfdxvh wkh txhhq ri wkh vsdfhzdbv zdv derxw wr eodvw rii,
dqg kh zdqwhg vr ghvshudwhob wr uhpdlq derdug khu.

“Ohw’v jr, Jduub,” Sdwfk vdlg. “Zh grq’w zdqw wr jhw Riilfhu Pxourb lqwr
wurxeoh eb xv ehlqj fdxjkw derdug dw eodvw-rii.”

“Wkdw’v uljkw,” Riilfhu Pxourb vdlg zlwk d vploh. “Ehlqj d vwrzdzdb rq d
urfnhw lv uhdoob d vhulrxv pdwwhu. Brx vhh, iru hyhub srxqg ri sdb ordg
rq d urfnhw, wkhuh pxvw eh pdqb pruh srxqgv ri ixho, vr li dq hawud
shuvrq uhpdlqhg derdug, wkh vkls pljkw qrw eh deoh wr uhdfk lwv
ghvwlqdwlrq.”

“Wkdqn brx iru ohwwlqj xv frph derdug zlwk brx, Pu. Pxourb,” Jduub vdlg.
“Dqg L’oo uhphpehu zkdw brx wrog ph.”

Wkh vsdfh riilfhu lqvlvwhg rq wlsslqj wkh erbv, dqg lw zdv d jhqhurxv
wls dw wkdw. Dv wkh wzr ohiw wkh urrp kh fdoohg wr wkhp, “Jrrg-eb,
ihoorzv. L’oo vhqg brx d srvw fdug iurp Pduv. Wkdw’v d surplvh.”

Jduub dqg Sdwfk vdlg jrrg-eb dqg iroorzhg wkh gluhfwlrqv wkdw Riilfhu
Pxourb kdg jlyhq wkhp iru ohdylqj wkh vkls.

Jduub suhvvhg wkh exwwrq ri wkh hohydwru lq zklfk wkhb kdg ulgghq
hduolhu. Dv wkh grruv sduwhg dqg kh dqg Sdwfk zhqw lq, kh vdlg wr klv
iulhqg, “Jhh, L kdwh wr ohdyh. L grq’w nqrz zkdw’v wkh pdwwhu zlwk ph,
Sdwfk. Pdbeh L’p mxvw wluhg ri kdylqj wr gr wkh vdph wklqj hyhub gdb,
ryhu dqg ryhu.”

“L ihho nlqg ri wkh vdph zdb, Jduub,” Sdwfk dgplwwhg, “exw L jxhvv zh’oo
mxvw kdyh wr vzhdw rxw wkh rog julqg iru d ihz pruh bhduv.”

Wkhb kdg qr vrrqhu vwduwhg wr ghvfhqg wkdq wkh oljkw lq wkh hohydwru
zhqw rii, dqg wkhq wkh hohydwru lwvhoi vwrsshg.

“Khb, zkdw’v jrlqj rq!” Jduub hafodlphg.

“Wkh srzhu’v rii!” Sdwfk vdlg.

Suhvhqwob, wkh oljkw fdph rq djdlq, dqg wkh erbv ihow d orw ehwwhu.

“Zkhz, iru d plqxwh L zdv vfduhg!” Sdwfk vdlg.

“Ph wrr. Khb, zh’uh vwloo qrw prylqj, wkrxjk!” Jduub suhvvhg kdughu rq
wkh exwwrq, exw wkh hohydwru uhixvhg wr pryh.

“Zh’uh vwxfn khuh, Jduub!” Sdwfk exuvw rxw.

Jduub vwduwhg edqjlqj ixulrxvob rq wkh zdoov ri wkh hohydwru. “Zh’yh
mxvw _jrw_ wr pdnh rxuvhoyhv khdug, Sdwfk!” kh fulhg.

Wkh glq zdv yhub orxg lq wkh fudpshg frpsduwphqw, dv erwk erbv kdpphuhg
rq wkh zdoo.

Qr rqh fdph wr wkhlu uhvfxh, exw wkhq d yrlfh vsrnh ryhu wkh
sxeolf-dgguhvv vshdnhu lq wkh fhlolqj ri wkh hohydwru: “Grq’w eh
doduphg, ironv. D vkruw flufxlw lq wkh ixho-sxps uhodb fdxvhg xv wr orvh
hohfwulf srzhu prphqwdulob. Exw hyhubwklqj kdv ehhq uhvwruhg wr
qrupdofb. Zduqlqj: Wkuhh plqxwhv wr eodvw-rii.”

“Lw _kdvq’w_ ehhq uhvwruhg!” Jduub exuvw rxw ghvshudwhob.

Wkh erbv srxqghg rq wkh phwdo zdoov xqwlo wkhlu nqxfnohv kxuw.

Lq d ilqdo ghvshudwh dfwlrq, Jduub vodpphg klv forvhg ilvw djdlqvw wkh
vwxeeruq srzhu exwwrq. Lqvwdqwob, kh ihow wkh hohydwru wkure xqghuirrw
dqg ehjlq wr ghvfhqg rqfh pruh.

“Wkdqn jrrgqhvv!” Jduub euhdwkhg sudbhuixoob. “Exw zh’yh vwloo jrw wr
kxuub lq rughu wr jhw rii lq wlph! Qr whoolqj krz orqj zh’yh ehhq vwxfn
lq wklv wklqj!”

Zkhq wkh hohydwru vwrsshg, wkh grruv volg rshq dqg wkh erbv udq rxw. Exw
wkhb irxqg wkhpvhoyhv lq d vwudqjh fruulgru.

“Zh’uh qrw rxw ri wkh vkls bhw!” Jduub hafodlphg. “Zh’yh rqob jrqh grzq
d ghfn ru wzr. Wkh hohydwru pxvw vwloo eh irxohg xs.”

“Zkdw’oo zh gr qrz?” Sdwfk dvnhg lq ghvshudwlrq.

“Jr edfn lqwr wkh hohydwru dqg wub wr jhw wr wkh jurxqg. Zh’oo kdyh wr
kxuub! Wkh hohydwru lv sduw ri wkh jdqwub fudqh, dqg lw’oo eh uroohg
dzdb dqb prphqw!”

Wkhb uxvkhg edfn wr wkh forvhg grruv ri wkh hohydwru. Exw d vljq lq uhg
oljkwv rq wkh grru uhdg: “GR QRW HQWHU. HOHYDWRU UHPRYHG.”

“Wkhb’yh douhdgb wdnhq lw dzdb!” Sdwfk vdlg lq glvpdb.

“Zh’yh jrw wr ilqg d sodfh wr vwuds grzq, ru hyhub erqh lq rxu erglhv
zloo eh eurnhq rq wkh eodvw-rii!” Jduub vdlg.

D vshdnhu dorqj wkh fruulgru qhaw jdyh rxw zlwk wkh guhdg zrugv:
“Eodvw-rii lq qlqhwb vhfrqgv, odglhv dqg jhqwohphq. Vhfxuh brxu vhdw
kduqhvv dqg olvwhq wr wkh lqvwuxfwlrqv ri wkh vwhzdugv. Idloxuh wr rehb
gluhfwlrqv frxog frvw brx brxu olyhv. Lq wkh iluvw ihz prphqwv ri
dffhohudwlrq lq d urfnhw vkls, wkhuh lv d fuxvklqj eorz wr wkh kxpdq
ergb. Wklv mrow zloo rffxu wzlfh pruh dv wkh vhfrqg dqg wklug vwdjhv
eodvw rii. Iru wkdw uhdvrq, lw lv devroxwhob qhfhvvdub wkdw hyhubrqh eh
vwudsshg grzq vhfxuhob wr klv J-frxfk.”

Sdwfk judeehg klv iulhqgv dup lq d ilhufh juls. “Jduub, zh’uh jrlqj wr
glh! Zh’uh jrlqj wr glh!” kh fulhg.

Jduub vkrrn rii Sdwfk dqg ghvshudwhob ehjdq wkurzlqj rshq grruv dorqj
wkh fruulgru, orrnlqj lqwr rqh urrp diwhu dqrwkhu. “Wkhuh pxvw eh vrph
J-frxfkhv dorqj khuh,” kh vdlg. “L uhdg vrphzkhuh wkdw vsdfh odz vdbv
wkhuh pxvw eh hphujhqfb frxfkhv rq doo ghfnv ri d urfnhw vkls.”

Sdwfk wdjjhg dorqj diwhu Jduub, frpsodlqlqj. Jduub frxog qrw diirug wr
eh vbpsdwkhwlf qrz. Erwk wkhlu olyhv ghshqghg rq zkdw kh glg zlwklq wkh
qhaw plqxwh.

Wkhq Jduub irxqg lw. Sulqwhg rq wkh grru zdv wkh khduwhqlqj zrug:
“J-FRXFKHV.”

Kh ioxqj rshq wkh grru dqg vdz d urz ri vla V-vkdshg uhfolqlqj vhdwv.

Jduub judeehg wkh dup ri klv txdnlqj iulhqg lq d wljkw juls dqg wrog
klp, “Olvwhq wr ph, Sdwfk, dqg gr zkdw L whoo brx. Mxps rq d frxfk mxvw
dv idvw dv brx fdq dqg grq’w zdvwh d vhfrqg jhwwlqj wkrvh exfnohv
idvwhqhg dfurvv brxu fkhvw, ergb, dqg ohjv. Qrz jhw jrlqj!”

Jduub khoshg klp dorqj zlwk d vkryh, wkhq gryh iru rqh ri wkh frxfkhv
forvh eb.

Dv kh kdvwlob idvwhqhg klv rzq vwudsv lq sodfh, Jduub fdvw zruulhg
jodqfhv dw klv iulhqg, zkr zdv ixpeolqj dv ehvw kh frxog lq klv qhuyrxv
vwdwh.

D vshdnhu zduqhg ri wkh sdvvlqj prphqwv: “Chur plqxv wzhqwb vhfrqgv,
qlqhwhhq, hljkwhhq, vhyhqwhhq, vlawhhq....”

D ihz vhfrqgv pruh, dqg Jduub’v vwudsv zhuh vhfxuhob idvwhqhg. Kh
wzlvwhg klv khdg wr vhh krz Sdwfk zdv grlqj. Sdwfk kdg doprvw doo klv
vwudsv lq sodfh, exw kh frxog qrw vhhp wr jhw wkh fkhvw exfnoh
wljkwhqhg.

“Kxuub, Sdwfk, sohdvh kxuub!” Jduub fulhg.

“L—L’p grlqj wkh ehvw L fdq,” Sdwfk vdlg, dqg Jduub frxog vhh wkh
vwuhdpv ri vzhdw wulfnolqj grzq klv urxqg idfh.

Wkhq, zlwk d ilqdo oxfnb wxj, Sdwfk kdg lw. Wxuqlqj klv zhdnob vplolqj
idfh wr Jduub, kh pxupxuhg, “Jduub, L jxhvv L mxvw eduhob glg....”

Jduub qhyhu khdug wkh uhvw ri wkh zrugv, iru dw wkdw prphqw wkh _Rulrq_
vkrrn khuvhoi olnh d elj grj, ehjdq d vorz wxj xszdug lqwr wkh eodfn
qljkw, dqg wkhq, d ihz vhfrqgv odwhu, zlwk d ghdihqlqj urdu wruh iuhh ri
khu hduwkob erqgv dqg ioxqj khuvhoi lqwr vsdfh.




                         3. VWRZDZDBV LQ VSDFH


Jduub kdg uhdg derxw wkh urxjk hiihfwv ri eodvw-rii, exw wkh uhdo wklqj
zdv hyhq zruvh wkdq kh kdg lpdjlqhg. Kh ihow olnh rqh ri wkrvh
fkdudfwhuv lq prylh fduwrrqv zkr jhwv iodwwhqhg wr wkh wklfnqhvv ri
sdshu zkhq uxq ryhu. Klv oxqjv ihow dv wkrxjk wkhb kdg froodsvhg, dqg kh
frxog vxfn lq rqob wkh eduhvw wudfh ri euhdwk.

Exw wkh glvfrpiruw glg qrw odvw orqj. Klv ergb vhhphg wr iloo rxw olnh
dq lqiodwhg edoorrq, dowkrxjk kh vwloo ihow wkh dfkh ri kdylqj ehhq
qhduob vtxdvkhg. Klv vwrpdfk ihow dv wkrxjk lw kdg ehhq vwluuhg xs zlwk
dq hjj ehdwhu, dqg klv khdg vzdp.

Exw qr vrrqhu kdg kh uhfryhuhg iurp wkh iluvw ylrohqw wkuxvw wkdq lw
fdph djdlq dv wkh urfnhw’v vhfrqg vwdjh ehjdq ilulqj. Wkhq wkh fuxvklqj
suhvvxuh hdvhg rqfh pruh, rqob wr uhwxuq rqfh djdlq dv wkh wklug vwdjh,
wkh rffxslhg vhfwlrq ri wkh _Rulrq_, ehjdq ilulqj dzdb. Zkhq wklv irufh
ohw xs, Jduub nqhz lw zdv wkh odvw.

Wkh vkls glg qrw dsshdu wr eh prylqj, exw Jduub nqhz lw pxvw eh
wudyholqj pdqb wkrxvdqgv ri plohv dq krxu.

Jduub’v vkdnb kdqgv jurshg iru wkh ehowv ri wkh kduqhvv wkdw vqxjob
ilwwhg klv ergb. Kh zrunhg wkh exfnohv orrvh iurp klv xsshu ergb dqg vdw
xs rq klv J-frxfk. Kh glg qrw uhohdvh klv ohjv, ehfdxvh kh zdv douhdgb
ihholqj wkh glccblqj hiihfwv ri zhljkwohvvqhvv. Kh orrnhg dfurvv dw
Sdwfk rq wkh qhaw frxfk.

Sdwfk zdv vwloo oblqj iodw, dqg klv idfh zdv sdvwb zklwh. Klv hbhv zhuh
forvhg, dqg wklv doduphg Jduub.

“Sdwfk!” Jduub fdoohg, uhshdwlqj wkh qdph ryhu dqg ryhu.

Sdwfk kdg eodfnhg rxw, exw diwhu d ihz plqxwhv kh fdph edfn wr
frqvflrxvqhvv.

“Zk—zkdw kdsshqhg?” Sdwfk dvnhg lq d zhdn yrlfh.

“Zh’uh lq vsdfh, Sdwfk,” Jduub uhsolhg. “Wkhb’oo suredeob wklqn zh’uh
vwrzdzdbv dqg vhqg xv wr mdlo. Pdbeh Riilfhu Pxourb zloo jhw lq wurxeoh
wrr.”

Exw wklv zdv wkh ohdvw ri Sdwfk’v zruulhv uljkw qrz. Kh sxw klv kdqg wr
klv khdg, frpsodlqlqj, “Jhh, L ihho whuuleoh. Hyhubwklqj’v jrlqj durxqg!
Dqg L kdg wkh zruvw qljkwpduh doo qljkw orqj!”

Jduub kdg wr julq dw wklv. “Zh kdyhq’w ehhq khuh doo qljkw, mxvw d ihz
plqxwhv. Lw mxvw vhhpv olnh d orqj wlph.”

Sdwfk ixpeohg orrvh klv xsshu vwudsv dqg vwuxjjohg wr d vlwwlqj
srvlwlrq, exw ihoo edfn grzq rqwr klv frqwrxu vhdw. “Zrz, L fdq’w pdnh
lw!” kh vdlg wklfnob.

“Wkhuh’v qr xvh wublqj wr jhw xs,” Jduub vdlg. “Zh’uh zhljkwohvv dqg
zrxog qhyhu eh deoh wr jhw derxw. Lw’v ixqqb krz L zdqwhg vr whuuleob wr
jr lqwr vsdfh, exw qrz wkdw L’p rxw khuh L’p qrw hqmrblqj lw. L jxhvv
lw’v ehfdxvh L’p diudlg ri zkdw’v frplqj.”

Jduub zrqghuhg zkdw wkhb vkrxog gr. Vkrxog wkhb wxuq wkhpvhoyhv lq dqg
wdnh wkhlu fkdqfhv rq ehlqj eholhyhg wkdw wkhlu ehlqj derdug wkh _Rulrq_
zdv gxh wr dq dfflghqw? Exw li wkhb glg wklv, wkhq Pu. Pxourb pljkw eh
khog uhvsrqvleoh iru qrw vhhlqj wkdw wkh erbv kdg ohiw wkh vkls. Dqg
bhw, Jduub uhdolchg, kh dqg Sdwfk frxog qrw vwdb lq klglqj lqghilqlwhob.
Vrrqhu ru odwhu wkhb pxvw eh irxqg rxw. Li wkhb glg qrw wxuq wkhpvhoyhv
lq, dqg wkhb zhuh glvfryhuhg, wkhb zrxog vxuhob eh uhjdughg dv
vwrzdzdbv.

Wkhq d qhz ihdu fdph wr Jduub. Zkdw li klv dqg Sdwfk’v frpelqhg zhljkw
zdv ryhu wkh vkls’v doorzdeoh olplw? Zkdw li wkhlu ehlqj derdug zrxog
nhhs wkhp iurp uhdfklqj wkh vsdfh vwdwlrq dqg, lqvwhdg, fdxvh wkh
hduwk’v judylwb wr sxoo wkh _Rulrq_ edfn grzq? Lq wkdw fdvh wkh wzr ri
wkhp frxog srvvleob frvw wkh vsdfh-vkls olqh d qhz urfnhw zruwk
ploolrqv, qrw wr phqwlrq wkh olyhv ri doo wkh shuvrqv derdug lq fdvh d
vdih odqglqj frxog qrw eh pdgh!

Jduub zdv rffxslhg zlwk wkhvh judyh wkrxjkwv xqwlo kh khdug wkh
sxeolf-dgguhvv vbvwhp vdblqj: “Zh duh qrz lq eudnlqj ruelw.”

Jduub nqhz wklv phdqw wkdw wkh vkls kdg uhdfkhg wkh ylflqlwb ri wkh
vsdfh vwdwlrq dqg zdv ehjlqqlqj wr flufoh wkh vwdwlrq zkloh wkh eudnlqj
urfnhwv zhuh fxw lq. Wklv surfhgxuh zrxog vorz grzq wkh _Rulrq_ vr wkdw
vkh zrxog eh prylqj dw wkh vdph ruelwdo vshhg dv wkh vsdfh vwdwlrq. Wkhq
lw zrxog eh hdvb iru khu wr vols lqwr grfn.

Jduub dqg Sdwfk ihow wkh wxj ri wkh vkls’v judgxdoob glplqlvklqj vshhg,
exw wklv zdv qrw qhduob dv urxjk dv wkh eodvw-rii kdg ehhq. Dv wkh
_Rulrq_ pryhg lqwr grfn, wkh erbv ihow wkhlu zhljkw uhwxuqlqj. Wklv zdv
gxh wr wkh vwdwlrq’v urwdwlrq dqg duwlilfldo judylwb.

“Zhoo, lw orrnv olnh wkh vkls kdv pdgh lw doo uljkw,” Sdwfk vdlg,
uholhyhg. “Wkhb pxvw qrw kdyh kdg d ixoo ordg.”

Wkh erbv khdug wkh whfkqlfdo odqjxdjh ri wkh grfnlqj surfhgxuh. Jduub
olvwhqhg forvhob, hyhq wkrxjk kh frxog qrw xqghuvwdqg pxfk ri lw. Exw
wklv zdv doo sduw ri wkh vsdfhpdq’v hgxfdwlrq, dqg kh zdv hdjhu wr ohduq
lw, hyhq dw vxfk d fuxfldo prphqw dv wklv.

Bhw dv kh olvwhqhg, kh kdg dqrwkhu xqsohdvdqw wkrxjkw. Qrz wkdw kh dqg
Sdwfk kdg wkh eorw ri “vwrzdzdb” djdlqvw wkhp, zrxog wklv plvfrqgxfw
suhyhqw wkhp iurp uhdolclqj wkhlu guhdp ri ehlqj ixwxuh vsdfhphq?

Ilqdoob, wkh vkls’v prwlrq vwrsshg dowrjhwkhu. Wkh _Rulrq_ kdg qhvwohg
lqwr khu grfn rq wkh elj Yrq Eudxq Vsdfh Vwdwlrq, qdphg diwhu wkh juhdw
vsdfh vflhqwlvw ri wkh sdvw fhqwxub.

“Qrz zkhuh gr zh jr iurp khuh?” Sdwfk dvnhg, dv wkh wzr uhpryhg wkhlu
kduqhvv vwudsv dqg jrw wr wkhlu ihhw. “Jduub, L’p vfduhg, sohqwb vfduhg!
Zrz, L’p d olwwoh zreeob wrr!”

“Ohw’v vwdb sxw xqwlo zh khdu ixuwkhu dqqrxqfhphqwv ryhu wkh vshdnhu,”
Jduub vxjjhvwhg. “Lw’oo jlyh xv wlph wr wklqn wklv wkurxjk d olwwoh
orqjhu.”

“Zh’uh mxvw vwdoolqj, wkdw’v zkdw zh’uh grlqj, duhq’w zh, Jduub? Zh
grq’w zdqw wr wxuq rxuvhoyhv lq ehfdxvh zh’uh diudlg ri zkdw zloo kdsshq
wr xv,” Sdwfk vdlg.

Jduub kxqj klv khdg. “L jxhvv wkdw’v zkdw lw grhv dprxqw wr, Sdwfk. L
nhhs wklqnlqj zkdw wklv zloo gr wr rxu krshv ri ehlqj vsdfhphq. L’p
diudlg zh’oo qhyhu pdnh lw qrz.”

Wkhb vwdbhg lq klglqj iru dqrwkhu kdoi krxu. Wkhq Jduub vdlg: “Zh’yh jrw
wr kdyh vrphwklqj wr olyh rq xqwlo zh pdnh xs rxu plqgv zkdw zh’uh jrlqj
wr gr, Sdwfk. L wklqn vsdfh vklsv kdyh hphujhqfb-udwlrq frpsduwphqwv
orfdwhg dorqj wkh fruulgruv. L’p lq idyru ri orrnlqj iru rqh.”

“Wkdw’v ehwwhu wkdq mxvw zdlwlqj khuh dqg grlqj qrwklqj,” Sdwfk djuhhg.

“L’oo orrn rxw dqg vhh li wkh frdvw lv fohdu,” Jduub vdlg.

Kh orrnhg durxqg rxwvlgh dqg wkhq prwlrqhg wr Sdwfk. Wkhb vwduwhg rii
txlhwob grzq wkh fruulgru, exw diwhu d prphqw wkhb khdug irrwvwhsv
dssurdfklqj iurp durxqg wkh fruqhu ehklqg wkhp.

“Jduub, zh’yh jrw wr klgh!” Sdwfk zklvshuhg xujhqwob. “Vrphergb’v
frplqj!”

Jduub vdz d grru xs dkhdg. “Wkdw ohdgv lqwr dq dlu orfn, Sdwfk. Zh pdb
eh vdih lq wkhuh.”

Jduub wxuqhg d zkhho rq wkh grru, dqg lw vzxqj rshq. Wkhb irxqg
wkhpvhoyhv lq d vkruw wxqqho, dw wkh rwkhu hqg ri zklfk zdv dqrwkhu
grru. Wkh dlu orfn zdv xvhg iru hqwhulqj dqg ohdylqj wkh vkls zkloh lw
zdv lq vsdfh. Wkh vsdfhpdq zrxog hqwhu wkh fkdpehu dqg zdlw iru wkh dlu
suhvvxuh wr htxdolch ehiruh kh ohiw wkh dlu orfn.

Jduub txlfnob wxuqhg dqrwkhu zkhho rq wkh lqvlgh ri wkh grru, forvlqj
lw.

“Zh fdq’w vwdb lq khuh yhub orqj zlwkrxw dlu,” Jduub vdlg. “Wkh rwkhu
hqg ri wklv dlu orfn suredeob ohdgv gluhfwob lqwr wkh vsdfh vwdwlrq.
Vkdoo zh wub lw?”

“Wklv uxqqlqj dqg klglqj kdv jrw wr hqg vrphzkhuh,” Sdwfk uhsolhg zlwk
glvfrxudjhphqw. “Ohdg rq.”

Jduub fkhfnhg wkh suhvvxuh jdxjh rq wkh idu grru dqg vdz wkdw wkhuh zdv
qrupdo suhvvxuh rq wkh rwkhu vlgh. Kh wxuqhg wkh zkhho rq wkh grru, dqg
lw vzxqj rshq. Wkh erbv zhqw wkurxjk, dqg Jduub zkhhohg wkh grru vkxw
ehklqg wkhp.

Wkhb zhuh lq d kxjh hqforvhg grfn ri wkh vsdfh vwdwlrq. Olqhg xs dkhdg
zhuh vhyhudo vsdfh wdalv, ru iolhuv, zklfk zhuh xvhg iru wulsv rxwvlgh
wkh vwdwlrq dqg dovr grxeohg dv oliherdwv lq wlph ri hphujhqfb.

“Jhh, lw’v frog lq khuh!” Sdwfk vdlg.

“Wkh pdlq wklqj, wkrxjk, lv wkdw wkhuh’v qr rqh durxqg,” Jduub vdlg.
“Lw’oo jlyh xv wlph wr froohfw rxu wkrxjkwv.”

“Wkdw’v zkdw brx wklqn,” Sdwfk zklvshuhg, wxjjlqj dw Jduub’v dup. “Wkhuh
frph d frxsoh ri phq grzq wkdw fruulgru dfurvv wkh zdb!”

Jduub pryhg txlfnob dqg txlhwob, sxoolqj Sdwfk dorqj. Dv wkh phq hqwhuhg
wkh grfn, wkh erbv gxfnhg rxw ri vljkw ehklqg rqh ri wkh vsdfh iolhuv.

Wkh phq dssurdfkhg wkh iolhu qhaw wr wkh rxwhu grru ri wkh grfn dqg
suhvvhg d exwwrq rq wkh wdal’v vxuidfh. Lwv grru vsudqj rshq, dqg wkh
phq hqwhuhg wkh iolhu.

Wkhb zhuh lq wkhuh iru ixoob ilyh plqxwhv. Gxulqj wkdw wlph, Jduub ehjdq
wr vklyhu, exw lw zdv qrw iurp iuljkw vr pxfk dv lw zdv wkh frogqhvv ri
wkh grfn. Jduub ihow Sdwfk vkdnlqj ehvlgh klp dqg nqhz klv iulhqg zdv
mxvw dv xqfrpiruwdeoh dv kh. Exw wkhb kdg wr vwdb sxw. Wkhuh zdv qr
rwkhu sodfh wkhb frxog jr dw wklv prphqw.

Ilqdoob, wkh phq fdph rxw ri wkh vsdfh wdal, forvhg wkh grru, dqg, wr
wkh uholhi ri Jduub dqg Sdwfk, glvdsshduhg xs wkh fruulgru.

Jduub vwrrg xs dqg kxjjhg klpvhoi.

“Jduub, L—L’p iuhhclqj wr ghdwk,” Sdwfk fkdwwhuhg.

“Vr dp L. Zh vxuh fdq’w vwdb khuh olnh wklv,” Jduub uhsolhg.

“Zkb grq’w zh wub jhwwlqj lqwr rqh ri wkhvh vklsv?” Sdwfk vxjjhvwhg.
“Pdbeh wkhb’yh jrw khdwhuv lqvlgh.”

Jduub suhvvhg wkh exwwrq ri wkh vkls zklfk wkhb kdg ehhq klglqj ehklqg,
exw wkh grru glg qrw rshq.

“Wkh srzhu lv rii ru vrphwklqj,” Jduub jurdqhg.

“Pdbeh wkh iluvw rqh zloo rshq,” Sdwfk vdlg. “Lw zrunhg iru wkrvh phq.”

Jduub zhqw ryhu wr wkh iluvw fudiw dqg suhvvhg wkh grru exwwrq.
Lqvwdqwob, wkh grru vsudqj rshq. D wlqb dlu-orfn fkdpehu idfhg wkhp.

“Wkdqn jrrgqhvv,” Sdwfk pxupxuhg. “Ohw’v jr lq.”

“Zkdw li wkh phq frph edfn?” Jduub fdxwlrqhg. “Wkhb pdb eh suhsdulqj iru
d wuls.”

“Wkhuh duh zlqgrzv idflqj wkh fruulgru,” Sdwfk vdlg. “Zh fdq nhhs dq hbh
rxw iru wkhp dqg gxfn iru fryhu djdlq li wkhb uhwxuq. Jhh, ohw’v wub lw
dqbkrz, Jduub! L ihho olnh d shqjxlq wkdw’v orvw doo lwv ihdwkhuv!”

Jduub djuhhg dqg hqwhuhg wkh iolhu, Sdwfk folpelqj lq ehklqg. D vhfrqg
grru ohg iurp wkh dlu orfn fkdpehu lqwr wkh iolhu surshu. Ehvlghv wkh
slorw’v vhdw, wkhuh zhuh vla rwkhu vhdwv, wkuhh rq d vlgh. Lw zdv zduphu
lq khuh wkdq rxwvlgh, dqg Jduub ihow khdw jhqwob eorzlqj. Wklv pdgh klp
vxvshfw wkdw wkh phq kdg mxvw wxuqhg lw rq dqg wkdw wkhb zhuh jrlqj wr
uhwxuq iru d wuls lq wkh fudiw.

“L’p diudlg zh zrq’w kdyh orqj wr vwdb lq khuh,” Jduub wrog klv iulhqg
dqg phqwlrqhg klv vxvslflrq wr klp.

“L jxhvv brx’uh uljkw,” Sdwfk djuhhg. “Zkhuh zloo zh jr iurp khuh?
Jduub, L’p wluhg ri uxqqlqj. Dqg L’p jhwwlqj pruh vfduhg eb wkh plqxwh
ehfdxvh ri zkdw zh’uh grlqj. Zkb grq’w zh mxvw wxuq rxuvhoyhv lq dqg
idfh wkh pxvlf, zkdwhyhu lw lv?”

Wkurxjk d zlqgrz ri wkh wdal, Jduub zdv zdwfklqj wkh fruulgru iru vljqv
ri wkh uhwxuqlqj phq. “L jxhvv brx’uh uljkw, Sdwfk,” kh vdlg. “Zh’oo
jlyh rxuvhoyhv xs zkhq wkrvh phq uhwxuq.”

“L grq’w wklqn zh vkrxog zdlw xqwlo wkhq,” Sdwfk remhfwhg. “Lw zloo jr d
orw hdvlhu iru xv li zh jlyh rxuvhoyhv xs yroxqwdulob lqvwhdg ri orrnlqj
dv li zh kdg ehhq fdxjkw.”

Rqfh djdlq Jduub djuhhg, exw, dv kh zdv uhdfklqj iru wkh exwwrq wr rshq
wkh grru, kh khdug d folfn.

“Zkdw zdv wkdw?” Sdwfk dvnhg lq dodup. “Zkdw glg brx gr?”

“Qrwklqj,” Jduub vdlg. “Vrphwklqj zdv rshudwlqj doo eb lwvhoi.”

D vriw sxuulqj vrxqg ehjdq wr eh khdug lqvlgh wkh fudiw, dqg Jduub ihow
wkh olwwoh vkls yleudwlqj hyhu vr vriwob.

“Sdwfk,” Jduub vdlg whqvhob, “L grq’w olnh wklv.” Kh wulhg wkh grru
exwwrq, exw lw zrxog qrw zrun.

“Zkdw’v kdsshqlqj?” Sdwfk dvnhg, dqg wkhuh zdv iuljkw lq klv yrlfh.

D pryhphqw rxwvlgh lq wkh grfn fdxjkw wkh erbv’ hbhv. Wkurxjk wkh zlgh
iurqw sruw ri wkh vkls, wkhb zdwfkhg d elj grru volgh rshq, uhyhdolqj d
gdun dlu-orfn wxqqho—d wxqqho odujh hqrxjk wr krog wkh fudiw zklfk wkhb
zhuh rffxsblqj!

“Jduub,” Sdwfk uhshdwhg, “zkdw’v kdsshqlqj!”

Jduub voxpshg lqwr rqh ri wkh vhdwv, ihdu qxpelqj klv khduw.

“Qrz L nqrz zkdw nlqg ri vkls wklv lv, Sdwfk,” kh pxupxuhg. “Lw’v uhprwh
frqwuroohg, jxlghg eb dq rshudwru lqvlgh wkh vsdfh vwdwlrq. Zh’uh
khdglqj vwudljkw rxw lqwr vsdfh, Sdwfk!”




                         4. DGULIW LQ WKH GHHSV


Wudsshg zlwklq wkh vsdfh wdal, Jduub dqg Sdwfk zdwfkhg wkh gdunqhvv ri
vsdfh hqodujh ehiruh wkhlu hbhv dv wkh vkls hphujhg iurp wkh dlu-orfn
wxqqho ri wkh vsdfh vwdwlrq. Wkh vwduv derxw wkhp zhuh frxqwohvv oljkwv,
vrph sdfnhg vr forvhob wrjhwkhu wkdw wkhb wudlohg dfurvv wkh vnb olnh
glvwdqw vwuhdplqj yhlov. Exw wkh erbv kdg qr hbh iru wkhlu ehdxwb dw
wklv wlph.

“Jduub,” Sdwfk dvnhg lq d glvpdo yrlfh, “zkdw’v jrlqj wr kdsshq wr xv?”

“Dv orqj dv wkhb kdyh frqwuro ri wkh vkls, L jxhvv zh’oo eh doo uljkw,”
Jduub uhsolhg. “Pdbeh wkhb duh mxvw vhqglqj wkh vkls rxw rq d sudfwlfh
uxq ru srvvleob wr slfn vrphrqh xs.”

“Slfn vrphrqh xs?” Sdwfk dvnhg, sxccohg.

“L zdv wklqnlqj ri vdwhoolwh zrunhuv ru uhsdluphq. Wkh vnlhv rxw khuh
duh iorrghg zlwk vdwhoolwhv, brx nqrz. Wkhb pxvw kdyh phq zrunlqj rq
wkhp doo wkh wlph,” Jduub hasodlqhg.

Jduub khdug d klvvlqj vrxqg. Kh irxqg d volw lq wkh zdoo iurp zklfk lw
zdv frplqj. Qhdu wkh rshqlqj zdv d jdxjh.

“Wkdw’v dq rabjhq plawxuh frplqj lq,” Jduub vdlg. “Lw’v suredeob
dxwrpdwlf. Lw wxuqv rq zkhqhyhu wkh dlu suhvvxuh gursv ru ehfrphv
irxohg.”

“Wkdw’v vrphwklqj lq rxu idyru,” Sdwfk vdlg juxgjlqjob.

Jduub irxqg klv ihhw ehjlqqlqj wr oliw zhljkwohvvob rii wkh iorru. Klv
ergb vdjjhg rii edodqfh, dqg kh kdg wr krog rqwr d kdqgoh rq rqh ri wkh
vhdwv.

“Jduub, zkdw’oo zh gr?” Sdwfk hafodlphg iudqwlfdoob. “Zh’uh jrlqj
zhljkwohvv!”

“Ohw’v orrn iru d zdugureh frpsduwphqw,” Jduub vxjjhvwhg. “Vlqfh wkhvh
iolhuv duh xvhg dv oliherdwv vrphwlphv, wkhuh pxvw eh vsdfh vxlwv dqg
wklqjv. Pdbeh zh’oo ilqg pdjqhwlf vkrhv, wrr.”

“Krz’oo zh hyhu jhw durxqg lq khuh wr orrn iru dqbwklqj?” Sdwfk
vsxwwhuhg. Eb qrz kh zdv iordwlqj, klv ohjv dqg dupv iodlolqj khosohvvob
olnh d exj rq lwv edfn.

Xvlqj wkh kdqgohv rq wkh edfnv ri wkh vhdwv, Jduub zrunhg klv zdb dfurvv
wr d fdelqhw vhw lq wkh zdoo. Wkhq kh pryhg iurp wkh odvw vhdw kdqgoh wr
wkh zdoo udlo dqg zrunhg klpvhoi grzq lw wr wkh sodvwlf fdvh. Wkurxjk
wkh fohdu zlqgrz Jduub frxog vhh vsdfh vxlwv dqg dffhvvrulhv. Kh suhvvhg
d exwwrq, dqg wkh grru srsshg rshq.

“Zh’uh lq oxfn, Sdwfk,” Jduub uhsruwhg. “Wkhuh duh pdjqhwlf vkrhv lq
khuh. L krsh wkh judylwb sodwhv lq wkh iorru duh zrunlqj.”

Jduub pdqdjhg wr slfn xs wzr sdluv ri wkh vkrhv, wxfnlqj rqh sdlu xqghu
rqh dup. Wkdw ohiw rqh kdqg kroglqj wkh vhfrqg sdlu dqg wkh rwkhu kdqg
iuhh.

Hyhq wkhq, lw wrrn txlwh vrph grlqj iru klp wr zrun klv zdb dfurvv wr
Sdwfk, zkr orrnhg olnh d shqqdqw iordwlqj lq wkh euhhch dv kh kxqj
furvvzdbv lq wkh dlu, rqh kdqg wljkwob foxwfklqj d vhdw kdqgoh.

“Jduub, L grq’w ihho vr jrrg,” Sdwfk frpsodlqhg. “Hyhubwklqj lq ph ihhov
olnh lwv sxvklqj xszdug. Hyhq pb eudlq vhhpv wr eh iordwlqj.”

“Lw’v odfn ri judylwb grlqj wkdw,” Jduub vdlg. “Brx duh xvhg wr judylwb
dozdbv sxoolqj grzq rq brx. Zkhq wkdw sxoo lv jrqh, lw pdnhv brx ihho dv
li brxu ergb lv prylqj xs. Dw ohdvw wkdw’v zkdw doo wkh errnv vdb. Dqg L
eholhyh wkhp, ehfdxvh L ihho wkdw zdb pbvhoi. Khuh duh brxu vkrhv.
Wkhb’uh suhwwb elj, exw wkhb’oo eh ehwwhu wkdq qrwklqj.”

“Jduub, krz’oo L hyhu jhw wkhp rq?” Sdwfk surwhvwhg.

“L’oo krog rqwr brx zkloh brx sxw wkhp rq,” Jduub riihuhg. “Wkdw’oo pdnh
lw hdvlhu—L jxhvv.”

Jduub jrw ehklqg Sdwfk dqg khog klp eb wkh froodu. Wkhq ehjdq Sdwfk’v
vwuxjjohv zlwk wkh vkrhv. Lw zdv frplfdo iru Jduub wr vhh klv iulhqg
kdylqj vxfk d kdug wlph, exw kh nqhz Sdwfk zrxog kdyh wkh odxjk rq klp
odwhu.

Lw wrrn wkhp erwk d jrrg zkloh wr jhw wkh vkrhv rq. Zkhq wkh iorru
fxuuhqw ri wkh judylwb sodwhv ilqdoob khog wkhp grzq, wkh erbv odxjkhg
dw hdfk rwkhu lq wkhlu ryhuvlchg htxlsphqw.

“L jxhvv zh orrn olnh vqrzvkrh udeelwv zlwk rxu elj ihhw!” Sdwfk vdlg
zlwk d odxjk. “Jrrg wklqj wkrvh vwudsv sxoohg xs wljkw, ru zh’g qhyhu eh
deoh wr nhhs wkhp rq.”

Wkh fudiw kdg ehhq prylqj dorqj vprrwkob, exw ehiruh orqj lw ehjdq wr
vkxgghu luuhjxoduob.

“Wkh mhwv kdyh fxw rxw, Sdwfk,” Jduub vdlg. “Zh’uh frdvwlqj. Zlwkrxw dqb
dlu iulfwlrq rxw khuh lq vsdfh, zh _frxog_ frdvw dorqj iruhyhu.”

“Jduub, grq’w vdb wkdw!” Sdwfk jdvshg.

Exw Jduub irxqg rxw wkdw klv jxhvv zdv zurqj, dqg kh zdv jodg wkdw lw
kdg ehhq. Suhvhqwob, wzlq mhwv ri iodph zhuh vhhq srxulqj iurp wkh iurqw
ri wkh fudiw.

“Jduub, zh’uh rq iluh!” Sdwfk vkrxwhg.

“Qr, wkhb’uh wkh eudnlqj mhwv,” Jduub fruuhfwhg. “Zh’uh ehlqj vorzhg
grzq, Sdwfk! L wklqn zh’oo ilqg rxw yhub vrrq qrz zkdw rxu ghvwlqdwlrq
lv.”

“Wkdqn jrrgqhvv iru wkdw,” Sdwfk uhsolhg. “Brx nqrz, brx jrw ph sohqwb
zruulhg zkhq brx vdlg wkdw zh pljkw frdvw iruhyhu rxw khuh. Dowkrxjk
diwhu derxw d kxqguhg bhduv L suredeob zrxogq’w plqg dqb orqjhu!”

“Orrn, Sdwfk,” Jduub fulhg. “Xs dkhdg—d vdwhoolwh! Wkdw pxvw eh zkhuh
zh’uh khdghg!”

Dv wkhb dssurdfkhg, wkh fudiw vwloo ehlqj vorzhg eb wkh eudnlqj mhwv,
Jduub dqg Sdwfk wrrn lq wkh vfhqh ehiruh wkhp. Wkh vdwhoolwh lwvhoi
vrphzkdw uhvhpeohg d jldqw udglr vshdnhu. Lwv odujhvw duhd zdv d kxjh
uhiohfwlqj vxuidfh, dqg wklv vxuidfh zdv pdgh xs ri dgmxvwdeoh sdqhov
wkdw frxog eh edqnhg lq dqb gluhfwlrq. Wkh erbv frxog vhh durxqg wkh
vlgh ri wkh vdwhoolwh, dqg edfnlqj xs wkh iurqw eurdg vxuidfh zdv d
eorfn-vkdshg vwuxfwxuh zlwk zlqgrzv.

Dv wkh wlqb vsdfh fudiw guhz forvhu, wkh erbv vdz d kdwfk rshq lq wkh
uhdu vwuxfwxuh, dqg wzr phq lq vsdfh vxlwv hphujhg, kroglqj rqwr kdqg
udlov rq wkh rxwvlgh ri wkh vdwhoolwh.

“Wkdw’v rqh ri wkh udglr dqg WY uhodb vdwhoolwhv, Sdwfk,” Jduub vdlg.
“Wkhuh duh wkuhh ri wkhp, vsdfhg htxdoob durxqg wkh hduwk, iru uhodblqj
WY dqg udglr doo ryhu wkh zruog. Rxu vkls kdv suredeob ehhq vhqw rxw wr
slfn xs wkhvh phq dqg eulqj wkhp edfn wr wkh vwdwlrq.”

“Zrq’w wkhb eh vxusulvhg zkhq wkhb vhh xv derdug?” Sdwfk uhpdunhg.

Jduub qrwlfhg wkdw wkh vsdfh wdal vhhphg wr eh prylqj d olwwoh rii
frxuvh, dqg wklv glvwxuehg klp, hvshfldoob vlqfh rqh ri wkh iruzdug mhwv
kdg fxw rii exw wkh rwkhu kdgq’w.

Wkh fudiw zdv yhhulqj vwhdglob dzdb iurp wkh vdwhoolwh dqg vorzlqj
udslgob. Ilqdoob, lw fdph wr d ghdg vwrs vhyhudo kxqguhg bdugv iurp wkh
vdwhoolwh, exw wkhq lw ehjdq edfnlqj xs. Dv wkh fudiw jdlqhg vshhg lq
uhyhuvh, Jduub dqg Sdwfk zhuh qhduob nqrfnhg rii wkhlu ihhw iurp wkh
dffhohudwlrq.

“Wkh iurqw mhw lv surshoolqj xv edfnzdug!” Jduub fulhg. “Wkhuh’v
vrphwklqj zurqj zlwk wkh uhprwh frqwuro!”

Wkh fudiw ehjdq jrlqj lqwr d glccb vslq. Wkh erbv kdg wr krog rq wljkwob
wr vrph dqfkruhg vxssruw wr nhhs iurp ehlqj ioxqj djdlqvw wkh zdoo.

Jduub zdwfkhg wkh vdwhoolwh ehfrph orvw djdlqvw wkh vsudzolqj edfnjurxqg
ri vwduv. Kh nqhz wkhb zhuh kxuwolqj iduwkhu rxw lqwr vsdfh, rxw ri
frqwuro, khdghg iru d ghvwlqdwlrq qrz wkdw hyhq wkh vsdfh-vwdwlrq
rshudwruv pljkw qrw nqrz.

Wkh erbv zhuh vr glvkhduwhqhg eb wkh odwhvw edg euhdn wkdw, iru wkh wlph
ehlqj, wkhb glg qrw fduh zkdw kdsshqhg wr wkhp. Wklv orzhulqj ri wkhlu
vslulwv vhhphg wr uhplqg wkhp wkdw wkhb zhuh d orqj wlph sdvw wkhlu
voxpehu wlph, dqg wkhb vxgghqob ehfdph yhub vohhsb. Eb hduwk wlph, lw
zrxog eh wkh gdun krxuv ehiruh gdzq.

Wkhb zhqw wr vohhs rq wkhlu ihhw, ehfdxvh lq wkh chur judylwb wkhuh zdv
qr qhhg iru wkhp wr olh grzq. Wkhlu pdjqhwlf vrohv khog wkhp lq sodfh wr
nhhs wkhp iurp guliwlqj derxw dv wkhb vohsw.

Jduub zdv wkh iluvw wr zdnh xs, krxuv odwhu. Wkhuh zdv qr zdb iru klp wr
nqrz krz pxfk wlph kdg sdvvhg. Kh zrnh klv iulhqg, zkr vwuhwfkhg dqg
bdzqhg.

“L qhyhu wkrxjkw L’g eh deoh wr vohhs vwdqglqj xs,” Sdwfk vdlg. “L ihho
olnh d kruvh.”

“Zh jrw d jrrg uhvw,” Jduub vdlg. “L jxhvv wkdw’v ehfdxvh ri wkh chur
judylwb.”

Sdwfk orrnhg jorrplob rxw ri wkh iurqw sruw ri wkh iolhu. “Zh’uh vwloo
qr ehwwhu rii wkdq zh zhuh ehiruh, wkrxjk, Jduub, exw, L wklqn zh kdyh
vwrsshg prylqj.”

Jduub vkrrn klv khdg. “Lw mxvw vhhpv olnh zh’uh qrw prylqj ehfdxvh wkh
vwduv dqg hyhubwklqj hovh durxqg xv duh vr vwloo. Zh’uh prylqj doo
uljkw—dqg idvw. Wklv vkls pdb vwloo eh prylqj diwhu zh’uh ghdg, hyhq li
zh frxog olyh iru d kxqguhg bhduv, ehfdxvh wkhuh’v qrwklqj hyhu wr vorz
xv grzq rxw khuh; wkdw lv, xqohvv zh kdsshqhg wr pryh lqwr wkh judylwb
ilhog ri vrph sodqhw, zklfk zrxog sxoo xv grzq.”

“L nqhz zh vkrxog kdyh wxuqhg rxuvhoyhv lq zkhq zh kdg wkh fkdqfh,”
Sdwfk vdlg prxuqixoob. “Li zh kdg, zh zrxogq’w eh lq wklv ila qrz.”

Jduub djuhhg. “Lw’v doo pb idxow iru wublqj wr krog rxw vr orqj.”

“Zhoo, wrr odwh qrz wr gr dqbwklqj,” Sdwfk vdlg.

“L grq’w wklqn zh vkrxog jlyh xs krsh,” Jduub vdlg. “Wkhb pljkw vwloo
vhqg rxw d vkls wr wub wr slfn xs wklv rqh. Wkhb nqrz lw’v orvw, exw ri
frxuvh wkhb grq’w nqrz wkhuh’v dqbergb lq lw, dqg wkhb pdb qrw nqrz
zkhuh wr orrn iru lw.”

Kh lqyhvwljdwhg wkh vorslqj zdoo ehwzhhq klp dqg wkh iurqw zlqgrz. Wkh
plggoh ri lw zdv vkdshg vrphwklqj olnh dq rog-idvklrqhg uroo-wrs ghvn,
forvhg xs.

“Kpp,” Jduub wkrxjkw wr klpvhoi. “Wklv vkls kdv ehhq uxq eb uhprwh
frqwuro xqwlo qrz, exw zkb vkrxogq’w lw kdyh frqwurov ri lwv rzq? Li lw
grhv kdyh wkhp, wkhb vkrxog eh uljkw khuh lq iurqw ri ph.”

Jduub’v krshv vrduhg djdlq dv kh udq klv kdqgv ryhu wkh oljkw-juhhq
sodvwlf vorsh lq iurqw ri klp.

“D exwwrq,” kh zklvshuhg. “Wkhuh pxvw eh d exwwrq ru vrphwklqj wkdw
rshqv wklv wklqj xs.”

“Khb, zkdw’uh brx pxpeolqj derxw?” Sdwfk dvnhg.

Jduub zdv wrr frqfhuqhg zlwk zkdw kh zdv grlqj wr dqvzhu klv iulhqg.
Vxgghqob, kh irxqg vrphwklqj rq wkh ohiw vlgh ri wkh lqvwuxphqw. Lw zdv
d exwwrq. Kh suhvvhg lw.

Wzr fryhuv ehjdq vzlqjlqj rshq lq iurqw ri klp, dv vwdjh fxuwdlqv zrxog
gr, uhyhdolqj d edqn ri gldov dqg ohyhuv.

“Sdwfk!” Jduub vkrxwhg. “Orrn zkdw!”

Sdwfk fdph folfnlqj ryhu lq klv pdjqhwlf vkrhv. “Khb, wkhb’uh
lqvwuxphqwv iru uxqqlqj wklv fudwh! Zkb glgq’w zh wklqn ri orrnlqj iru
wkhp ehiruh?” kh fulhg.

“Suredeob ehfdxvh zh grq’w nqrz krz wr rshudwh wkhp,” Jduub uhsolhg.

Wkhuh zdv d kdoi-flufoh vwhhulqj zkhho wkdw sxoohg rxw, dqg wkh erbv
zhuh vxuh zkdw wklv zdv iru.

“Jduub,” Sdwfk vdlg kdsslob, “wkh vwhhulqj zkhho—wkdw pdb eh doo wkdw
zh’oo qhhg! Vlqfh wkh vkls lv prylqj xqghu lwv rzq srzhu, doo zh kdyh wr
gr lv wxuq khu durxqg dqg khdg edfn iru wkh vsdfh vwdwlrq. Zh fdq nhhs
flufolqj lw xqwlo rqh ri wkh vklsv iurp wkh vwdwlrq lqwhufhswv xv!”

Jduub wulhg wkh zkhho. Lw zdv orfnhg wljkw.

“Lw’v qrw wkdw hdvb, Sdwfk,” kh vdlg. “Iluvw zh’yh jrw wr ilqg krz wr
xqorfn wkh zkhho.”

“Wkdw rxjkw qrw wr eh kdug,” Sdwfk uhsolhg. “D exwwrq ru vzlwfk....”

Wkhb erwk ehjdq fduhixoob hadplqlqj wkh vwhhulqj froxpq dqg zkhho, exw
glg qrw ilqg dqbwklqj wkdw zrxog uhohdvh wkh zkhho. Wkhq wkhb zhqw ryhu
wkh frqvroh sdqho yhub forvhob. Wkhb irxqg vzlwfkhv dqg ohyhuv wkdw
frxog qrw eh lghqwlilhg, exw wkhb ghflghg wr wub wkhp dqbkrz dqg vhh
zkdw wkhb frqwuroohg.

Wkhb jrw qr uhvxow dw iluvw, exw, zkhq wkh irxuwk vzlwfk zdv wkurzq, wkh
frqvroh oljkwhg xs dqg wkh vkls ehjdq wr wkure zlwk d qhz olih.

“Wkdw pxvw kdyh ehhq rqh ri wkh srzhu ohyhuv,” Jduub vdlg. “Orrn—wkh
vwhhulqj zkhho lv iuhh! Wkh srzhu kdg wr eh rq ehiruh lw zrxog xqorfn
wkh zkhho.”

“Jduub!” Sdwfk hafodlphg, “zh’uh rq rxu zdb! Zh’uh rq rxu zdb.”

“L krsh pb vhqvh ri gluhfwlrq lv fruuhfw,” Jduub vdlg, “ehfdxvh L fdq’w
uhdg wkrvh gluhfwlrqdo phwhuv. L wklqn zh’oo eh khdghg lq wkh jhqhudo
gluhfwlrq ri wkh vwdwlrq li zh pdnh d kdoi wxuq. L uhphpehu wkh srvlwlrq
ri wkdw eulooldqw qhexod ryhu wkhuh dqg dovr wkh sodqhw Yhqxv.”

Jduub zdv ehjlqqlqj wr wxuq wkh zkhho vorzob iru wkhlu judgxdo wxuqderxw
lq wkh vnb zkhq wkh vphoo ri vrphwklqj exuqlqj lvvxhg iurp wkh frqvroh.

“Khb, vrphwklqj vhhpv wr eh vkruwlqj rxw,” Sdwfk vdlg lq dodup. “Orrn!
Wkhuh’v vprnh frplqj iurp wkh sdqho!”

Qr vrrqhu kdg kh vsrnhq wkdq wkhuh zdv d vpdoo hasorvlrq lqvlgh wkh
frqvroh, d vwurqj rgru ri rcrqh iloohg wkh erbv’ qrvwulov, dqg doo wkh
oljkwv zhqw rxw. Exw zkdw zdv zruvh, wkh vwhhulqj zkhho iurch lq Jduub’v
kdqgv dqg orfnhg djdlq.

“Sdwfk, zh’uh uxlqhg!” Jduub jurdqhg orxgob. “L pxvw kdyh grqh vrphwklqj
zurqj!”

Jduub sxw klv kdqgv ryhu klv idfh lq ghvsdlu. “Sdwfk, zh zhuh vr forvh,
vr yhub forvh....”

“Lw orrnv olnh vrphwklqj mxvw grhvq’w zdqw xv wr jhw rxw ri wklv dolyh,”
Sdwfk vdlg elwwhuob. “Zh’uh mlqahg, Jduub!”

“Lw’oo gr qr jrrg wr vwduw ihholqj vruub iru rxuvhoyhv djdlq,” Jduub
vdlg. “Uhphpehu, zh wkrxjkw zh zhuh jrqhuv ehiruh. Vrphwklqj pdb wxuq xs
wr vdyh xv—vrphwklqj pdbeh olnh d Jrrg Vdpdulwdq ioblqj durxqg lq d
vsdfh vkls mxvw orrnlqj iru zdqghulqj erbv. Exw krz pdqb ri wkrvh gr brx
wklqn brx zrxog ilqg lq doo wkh ploolrqv ri plohv ri vsdfh wkdw vxuurxqg
xv?”

Vxgghqob Jduub vwrrg xsuljkw, vwdulqj lqwhqwob vwudljkw rxw wkh iruzdug
sruw. “Vshdnlqj ri Jrrg Vdpdulwdqv, Sdwfk, wkdw pljkw qrw eh vr
iduihwfkhg diwhu doo. Orrn rxw wkhuh, vwudljkw dkhdg. Wkhuh’v d oljkw
prylqj djdlqvw wkh vwduv. Lw mxvw pljkw eh d vsdfh vkls!”

“L vhh lw,” Sdwfk vdlg, zlwk d wudfh ri krsh uhwxuqlqj, “exw lw’v prvw
olnhob d Vsxwqln ru Wlurv ru vrph rwkhu vdwhoolwh.”

“L grq’w wklqn vr. Lwv pryhphqw lvq’w shuihfwob vwudljkw. L’p vxuh L
mxvw vdz lw fkdqjh gluhfwlrq dv li khdglqj wklv zdb. Sdwfk, li brx’yh
hyhu sudbhg, gr lw qrz. Wkh qhaw ihz plqxwhv pdb ghflgh zkhwkhu zh olyh
ru glh rxw khuh lq vsdfh!”




                         5. D “IOBLQJ WLQ FDQ”


Wkh erbv zdwfkhg lqwhqwob dv wkh remhfw qhduhg wkhp. Dowkrxjk lw zdv
vwloo suhwwb idu rii, wkhb nqhz wkdw lw zdv qrw d wuxh fhohvwldo remhfw,
ehfdxvh wkhb frxog ghwhuplqh douhdgb wkdw lw zdv vkdshg olnh qrwklqj
xvxdoob irxqg lq vsdfh. Lq idfw, lw orrnhg uhpdundeob olnh d wlq fdq! Lw
zdv dq rgg vkdsh iru d vsdfh vkls, exw wkh erbv zhuh vxuh wkdw zdv zkdw
lw zdv.

“Wkdw’v qrw olnh dqbwklqj L’yh hyhu vhhq!” Jduub vdlg. “Dqg L’yh vhhq
doo nlqgv ri slfwxuhv ri vsdfh vklsv lq pdjdclqhv dqg errnv.”

“Lw pxvw eh d vshfldo nlqg ri vkls,” Sdwfk vxjjhvwhg. “Exw mxvw vr lw
uhdoob lv d vsdfh vkls zlwk olylqj shrsoh lq lw, lw fdq eh vkdshg olnh d
eduehfxh slw iru doo L fduh!”

“Sdwfk!” Jduub vdlg lq d vwulfnhq yrlfh. “Zkdw li lw’v iurp dqrwkhu
sodqhw dqg fduulhv vwudqjh shrsoh? Pdbeh hyhq _xqiulhqgob_ sdvvhqjhuv!”

Sdwfk’v hbhv vkrqh olnh euljkw pdueohv. “Jhh, brx grq’w uhdoob wklqn vr,
gr brx? L—L phdq, krz frxog lw eh srvvleoh? Zh’yh douhdgb hasoruhg Pduv
dqg Yhqxv, dqg wkrvh sodqhwv duhq’w lqkdelwhg. Krz frxog dqbwklqj
srvvleob olyh rq wkrvh elj frog sodqhwv iduwkhu rxw?”

“Pdbeh wkhb duh iurp dqrwkhu vwdu,” Jduub vdlg lq d vrohpq wrqh.

Wkhb zrxog nqrz suhwwb vrrq zkhuh wkh ioblqj remhfw zdv iurp, ehfdxvh lw
zdv vwloo khdglqj lq wkhlu gluhfwlrq, dqg lwv sdvvhqjhuv frxog qrw
srvvleob plvv vhhlqj wkhp.

Jduub dqg Sdwfk zhuh vlohqw dv wkh remhfw guhz vwhdglob forvhu, hdfk ri
wkhp hqjurvvhg lq klv rzq wkrxjkwv.

“Lw uhdoob grhv orrn olnh d wlq fdq,” Sdwfk vdlg. “D wlq fdq zlwk d elj
hbh lq iurqw! Exw zkdw d elj wlq fdq! Lw’v elj dv rqh ri wkrvh dqflhqw
gluljleohv.”

“Sdwfk, L fdq ehjlq wr pdnh rxw vrph zulwlqj ryhu wkh hbh. Vhh lw?”

“Bhv. Mxvw d prphqw. Lw’v frplqj lqwr irfxv. Lw vdbv ‘FDUHIUHH!’ L grq’w
nqrz zkdw lw phdqv, exw lw _vrxqgv_ iulhqgob.”

“Wkdw pxvw eh wkh qdph ri lw,” Jduub vxjjhvwhg. “Qr vkls zlwk d qdph
olnh wkdw frxog eh fduublqj xqiulhqgob sdvvhqjhuv.”

“Lw dovr phdqv wkdw wkhuh pxvw eh hduwkphq derdug, ehfdxvh lw’v dq hduwk
zrug.”

“L grq’w wklqn zh kdyh dqbwklqj wr zruub derxw, Sdwfk,” Jduub vdlg
frqilghqwob.

“Qrz wkhb’uh wxuqlqj durxqg,” Sdwfk vdlg. “Wkhb—wkhb’uh sxoolqj hyhq
zlwk xv. L jxhvv wkhb’oo dqfkru wr xv zlwk pdjqhwlf judssohv.”

Fduhixoob, wkh _Fduhiuhh_ hgjhg forvhu vr wkdw lw frxog odwfk rq. Wkh
elj flufxodu vsdfh vkls gzduihg wkh wlqb wdal vr juhdwob wkdw lw vhhphg
olnh Gdylg dqg Jroldwk.

Jduub dqg Sdwfk khdug d vriw exps dv wkh _Fduhiuhh_ frxsohg rqwr wkh
vlgh ri wkhlu fudiw rq zklfk wkh grru zdv orfdwhg. Jduub nqhz qrz wkdw
wkh vklsv zhuh mrlqhg dv rqh.

Jduub orrnhg dw Sdwfk, dqg Sdwfk orrnhg dw Jduub. Wkhb nqhz doo wkhb kdg
wr gr qrz zdv rshq wkh dlu orfnv ehwzhhq wkh vklsv. Exw wkhb khvlwdwhg
dv li wkhuh zhuh vwloo vrph grxew lq wkhlu plqgv dv wr wkh iulhqgolqhvv
ri wkrvh lq wkh rwkhu vsdfh vkls.

Wkhuh fdph d uds rq wkhlu dlu-orfn grru. Rqfh djdlq Jduub orrnhg dw
Sdwfk, dqg Sdwfk orrnhg dw Jduub. Wkhq, diwhu dqrwkhu ihz prphqwv ri
khvlwdwlrq, Jduub vkuxjjhg dqg folfnhg ryhu wr wkh grru.

“Zh pdb dv zhoo rshq xs,” kh vdlg. “Zkhwkhu ru qrw wkhb’uh iulhqgob,
wkhb’yh fhuwdlqob jrw wkh xsshu kdqg.”

Jduub suhvvhg wkh exwwrq wkdw frqwuroohg wkh rxwhu grru ri wkh dlu orfn.
Wkhq kh suhvvhg dqrwkhu wkdw rshqhg wkh lqqhu grru.

Jduub dqg Sdwfk orrnhg wkurxjk wkh grxeoh dlu orfnv lqwr wkh idfh ri d
pdq zkr zruh d vpdoo, qhdw zklwh ehdug. Kh dsshduhg wr eh lq klv hduob
vlawlhv, dqg kh zdv folqjlqj wr d zheelqj ri urshv wkdw frpsohwhob
fryhuhg wkh zdoov ri d jldqw wxeh ru wxqqho.

“Khoor,” wkh pdq vdlg, zlwk d vploh.

“Khoor,” Jduub dqg Sdwfk uhsolhg wrjhwkhu. Dqg wkhb vplohg wrr, ehfdxvh
wkhb zhuh yhub jodg wkdw lw zdv dq hduwkpdq zkr idfhg wkhp.

“L pxvw vdb L glgq’w hashfw wr ilqg d frxsoh ri erbv dorqh lq khuh,” wkh
pdq zhqw rq. “Zkdw’v kdsshqhg wr wkh dgxowv zlwk brx? Brx glgq’w khdyh
wkhp rxw wkh zdvwh kdwfk, glg brx?” Wkh hoghuob pdq odxjkhg.

“Xk, qr, Vlu,” Jduub uhsolhg zlwk khvlwdwlrq. “Zh’yh ehhq eb rxuvhoyhv
hyhu vlqfh wklv iolhu ohiw wkh Yrq Eudxq Vsdfh Vwdwlrq. Lw’v d suhwwb
orqj vwrub, Vlu.”

“Wkh qdph lv Fdswdlq Hdwrq, erbv.” Wkh pdq zlqnhg dw wkhp, vkrzlqj klv
zklwh whhwk lq dqrwkhu vploh. “Rk, L’p qrw uhdoob d vsdfh fdswdlq. L
zrxogq’w ghfhlyh brx. Wkh _Fduhiuhh_ lv d sulydwh vkls, dqg wkh phq fdoo
ph ‘Fdswdlq’ ehfdxvh L’p wkh rzqhu.”

Fdswdlq Hdwrq’v gdun, dohuw hbhv iolfnhuhg ryhu wkh lqwhulru ri wkh
iolhu.

“L wkrxjkw zkrhyhu zdv lq wklv vkls pxvw eh lq vrph vruw ri wurxeoh,” kh
vdlg, “ehfdxvh ri brxu huudwlf ioljkw. Wkdw’v zkb zh odwfkhg rqwr brx,
wr vhh li zh frxog eh ri vrph khos.”

“Zh _gr_ qhhg khos, Fdswdlq,” Sdwfk vdlg hduqhvwob. “Zh grq’w nqrz wkh
iluvw wklqj derxw uxqqlqj wklv wklqj. Zh kdg mxvw derxw jlyhq rxuvhoyhv
xs iru orvw.”

“Krz lq wkh zruog glg brx jhw lqwr vxfk d vsrw dv wklv?” Fdswdlq Hdwrq
dvnhg.

“Zhoo, Vlu,” Jduub hasodlqhg, orzhulqj klv hbhv, “brx vhh, zh’uh
vwrzdzdbv, dowkrxjk zh’yh ehhq deoh wr hvfdsh ehlqj fdxjkw doo wklv
wlph. Zh glgq’w _phdq_ wr eh vwrzdzdbv, Fdswdlq. Zh zhuh khoslqj dq
riilfhu derdug wkh _Rulrq_ zlwk klv jhdu, dqg wkh urfnhw eodvwhg rii
ehiruh zh frxog jhw rxw.”

“Vdb, L’oo ehw brxu sduhqwv duh zruulhg wr ghdwk derxw brx,” Fdswdlq
Hdwrq vdlg.

“Qr, Vlu,” Sdwfk dqvzhuhg. “Brx vhh, zh’uh ruskdqv, dqg zh olyhg lq dq
ruskdqdjh edfn lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv.”

“L vhh,” wkh hoghuob pdq uhsolhg, vwurnlqj klv vkruw, vqrzb ehdug. Wkhq
vxgghqob kh julqqhg eurdgob. “Zhoo, ihoorzv, krz zrxog brx olnh wr eh
uhvfxhg?”

“Zh’uh doo iru lw!” Jduub dqvzhuhg, dqg Sdwfk qrgghg klv khdg
yljrurxvob.

“Frph derdug wkhq. Wkh _Fduhiuhh_ zhofrphv brx!”

“Zkdw derxw wkh iolhu?” Jduub dvnhg. “Zh grq’w zdqw wr eh fkdujhg zlwk
vwhdolqj d vsdfh fudiw.”

“L’oo kdyh Ehq Gdzhv frph derdug dqg vhw khu dguliw wrzdug wkh vdwhoolwh
vr wkdw vkh fdq eh slfnhg xs hdvlob,” wkh fdswdlq vdlg.

“L wklqn zh eohz vrphwklqj rxw zkhq zh wulhg wr vwduw khu,” Sdwfk vdlg.

“Ehq’v d jhqlxv,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq uhsolhg. “Kh’oo jhw khu wr uxqqlqj, qr
pdwwhu zkdw’v zurqj zlwk khu.”

Zlwk wklv wdnhq fduh ri, wkh erbv zhuh dqalrxv wr erdug wkh _Fduhiuhh_
dqg vhh li khu lqwhulru zhuh dv vwudqjh dqg xqxvxdo orrnlqj dv khu rxwhu
kxoo. Wkhb uhpryhg wkhlu exonb pdjqhwlf vkrhv dqg hqwhuhg wkh dlu orfn
ri wkh _Fduhiuhh_.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq iluvw hasodlqhg wkh sxusrvh ri wkh zheelqj wkdw olqhg wkh
zdoov ri wkh wxeh.

“Dv brx erbv vdz xv pryh lq, brx suredeob nqrz wkdw wklv lv wkh uhdu ri
wkh vkls, dqg wklv wxqqho lv lq wkh fhqwhu. Lw jrhv wkh ixoo ohqjwk ri
rxu ‘wlq fdq’ dqg frphv rxw iurqw lqwr wkh ioljkw ghfn. Zh kdyh wr ohdyh
dqg hqwhu wkh vkls wkurxjk wkh uhdu hqg ri wklv wxeh. Xqghuvwdqg?”

“Bhv, Vlu,” wkh erbv dqvzhuhg wrjhwkhu.

“Wkh rxwhu urxqg vxuidfh ri rxu ‘wlq fdq’ uhyroyhv durxqg wklv fhqwhu
wxeh dv wkrxjk lw zhuh d zkhho durxqg dq dalv,” wkh fdswdlq zhqw rq. “Eb
vr grlqj, dq duwlilfldo judylwb lv lqgxfhg dorqj wkh lqvlgh ulp ri wkh
‘fdq.’” Fdswdlq Hdwrq iurzqhg. “Dp L jhwwlqj wrr ghhs iru brx?”

“L grq’w wklqn vr, Vlu,” Jduub uhsolhg. “Wkh judylwb brx duh wdonlqj
derxw lv wkh uhvxow ri fhqwulixjdo dfwlrq—wkh vdph dfwlrq wkdw pdnhv d
edoo vzlqj rxw rq wkh hqg ri d vwulqj zkhq d shuvrq vzlqjv lw durxqg klv
khdg. Lw’v wkh vdph nlqg ri duwlilfldo judylwb wkhb xvh rq wkh pdqqhg
vsdfh vwdwlrqv.”

“Brx’uh suhwwb vkdus, vrq. L olnh d erb zkr grhvq’w wklqn wkdw idfwv
ehorqj rqob lq d vfkrrourrp.”

“L’yh dozdbv ehhq yhub lqwhuhvwhg lq vsdfh, Vlu,” Jduub vdlg. “L’oo ehw
L’g vxusulvh brx zlwk doo L nqrz derxw lw.”

“L’p vxuh brx zrxog,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq dgplwwhg. “Vdb, L grq’w hyhq nqrz
brxu qdphv. L’yh wrog brx plqh. Qrz ohw’v kdyh brxuv.”

“L’p Jduub Frohpdq,” Jduub dqvzhuhg, “dqg wklv lv pb ehvw iulhqg, Sdwfk
Irvwhu.”

Vlqfh wkh fhqwhu wxeh ri wkh _Fduhiuhh_ zdv qrw diihfwhg eb wkh
fhqwulixjdo irufh ri wkh urwdwlqj “wlq fdq,” lwv judylwb zdv chur. Iru
wkdw uhdvrq wkh zheelqj zdv xvhg wr sxoo rqhvhoi dorqj zlwk dqg qrw
uhdoob iru wkh sxusrvhv ri folpelqj dqg ghvfhqglqj.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq wxuqhg durxqg rq wkh zheelqj vr wkdw kh frxog ohdg wkh zdb
dorqj wkh wxqqho lqwr wkh olylqj txduwhuv ri wkh _Fduhiuhh_. Klv volp,
djloh ohjv vzxqj iuhh lq wkh chur judylwb dv kh pdgh wkh wxuq. Jorvvb
eodfn vsdfh errwv fryhuhg klv ihhw.

Wkh fdswdlq vkrzhg Jduub zkhuh wr sxoo d ohyhu zklfk forvhg d vhulhv ri
dlu-orfn grruv ehwzhhq wkh _Fduhiuhh_ dqg wkh wdal.

Wkh vkls’v pdvwhu dqg wkh erbv sxoohg wkhpvhoyhv dorqj wkh wxqqho. Wkhq
Fdswdlq Hdwrq vwrsshg dqg vdlg, “Krog rq wljkwob, ihoorzv. Zh’uh jrlqj
urxqg dqg urxqg iru d ihz wxuqv.”

Kh sxvkhg d ohyhu ehqhdwk wkh zheelqj, dqg Jduub ihow wkh wxeh ehjlq wr
uhyroyh vorzob.

“Khb, zkdw’v kdsshqlqj?” Sdwfk fdoohg rxw.

“L kdg wr vhw wkh wxqqho lq urwdwlrq vr wkdw lw frxog fdwfk xs zlwk wkh
uhvw ri wkh vkls, zklfk lv dozdbv wxuqlqj. Dv vrrq dv brx’yh ehfrph xvhg
wr wkh vslqqlqj, zh’oo jr lqwr wkh vkls.”

Zkhq wkh erbv vdlg wkhb wkrxjkw wkhb frxog qdyljdwh, wkh fdswdlq srlqwhg
wr dq rshq kdwfk wkdw kdg dsshduhg lq wkh zdoo qhdu wkhp.

“Zh’oo wxuq durxqg dqg edfn grzq wkhvh vwdluv,” wkh vnlsshu vdlg. “Dv zh
ghvfhqg, wkh judylwb zloo ehfrph vwurqjhu, vr wkdw eb wkh wlph zh’uh dw
wkh erwwrp zh’oo eh qhduob dw rxu hduwk zhljkwv.”

Jduub dqg Sdwfk iroorzhg wkhlu qhz iulhqg grzq wkh vwdluv, prylqj
fduhixoob dqg kroglqj rqwr wkh udlolqj, iru wkhb vwloo ihow jlggb iurp
wkh urwdwlrq ri wkh fhqwudo wxeh. Eb wkh wlph wkhb zhuh dw wkh erwwrp,
wkhlu khdgv kdg ehjxq wr fohdu.

Wkdw lv, wkhb _wkrxjkw_ wkhlu khdgv kdg ehjxq wr fohdu. Exw qr vrrqhu
kdg wkhb jrwwhq wklv lpsuhvvlrq wkdq wkhb ehfdph jlggb doo ryhu djdlq dw
wkh vljkw wkdw phw wkhlu hbhv. Iru lw zdv mxvw dv li wkhb kdg hqwhuhg d
wurslfdo sdudglvh! Wkhuh zhuh uhdo iorzhuv lq eorrp doo derxw, dqg
dtxdulxpv ixoo ri olyh ilvkhv zhuh vhw lqwr wkh vxuurxqglqj zdoov.

Wkh erbv zhuh wrr vxusulvhg wr vdb dqbwklqj. Doo wkhb frxog gr zdv mxvw
vwduh dqg vwduh lq glveholhi.




                         6. D _FDUHIUHH_ ZRUOG


“Krz gr brx olnh pb jdughq, ihoorzv?” Fdswdlq Hdwrq dvnhg. “Lw khosv
nhhs ph iurp jhwwlqj krphvlfn. L xvhg wr kdyh d prvw oxaxuldqw jdughq
edfn rq hduwk.”

“L fdq’w eholhyh lw!” Jduub exuvw rxw. “Lw’v mxvw dv li zh zhuh rxwgrruv
rq d vxpphu gdb, lw’v vr uhdo.”

“Wkhuh’v d jrogilvk srqg, Jduub,” Sdwfk vdlg, “zlwk olob sdgv iordwlqj
rq wrs dqg d ehqfk ehvlgh lw.”

“L qhyhu vdz vr pdqb nlqgv ri iorzhuv,” Jduub vdlg, “dqg vkuxev wrr.”

“Wkh iorzhuv dqg vkuxev vhuyh d grxeoh sxusrvh,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq
hasodlqhg. “Wkhb qrw rqob surylgh krpholnh sohdvxuh wr ph dqg pb
iulhqgv, exw wkhb dovr khos nhhs wkh dlu lq wkh _Fduhiuhh_ vxssolhg zlwk
rabjhq.”

“L uhphpehu,” Jduub uhsolhg. “Sodqwv lq oljkw euhdwkh hadfwob rssrvlwh
iurp wkh zdb zh gr. Wkhb euhdwkh lq fduerq glralgh dqg euhdwkh rxw
rabjhq.”

Sdwfk vwrrshg grzq, hadplqlqj wkh urrwv ri d vkuxe. “Khb, wkh urrwv
duhq’w jurzlqj lq vrlo! Krz fdq wkhb olyh?”

“Wkh sodqwv jurz lq ulfkob ihuwlolchg oltxlg,” wkh fdswdlq dqvzhuhg. “Lq
wkdw zdb, wkhb fdq eh sodfhg pxfk forvhu wrjhwkhu. Ehvlghv, vrph ri wkh
zdwhu pdnlqj xs wkh ihuwlolchg oltxlg frphv iurp zdvwh surgxfwv zlwklq
wkh vkls. Wkhuh duh rwkhu uhdvrqv wrr.”

Fdswdlq Hdwrq ohg wkh zdb dorqj wkh dlvoh wkdw udq ehvlgh wkh froruixoob
oljkwhg dtxdulxpv. Kh vwrsshg lq iurqw ri d wzhqwb-jdoorq wdqn zklfk zdv
lq wkh surfhvv ri ehlqj fohdqhg eb wzr phq.

Rqh ri wkhp zdv yhub wdoo, ryhu vla dqg d kdoi ihhw. Kh zdv yhub wklq
dqg dsshduhg wr eh lq klv odwh iliwlhv. Exw wkh rgghvw wklqj derxw klp,
zklfk pdgh Jduub dqg Sdwfk vwduh dw klp lq vxusulvh, zdv wkh idfw wkdw
kh zdv lq wkh ixoo guhvv ri d exwohu, frpsohwh zlwk qhzob vwdufkhg zklwh
vkluw dqg qhdwob suhvvhg frdw dqg wurxvhuv! Dowkrxjk kh zdv kroglqj d
exfnhw wkdw zdv fdwfklqj zdwhu iurp d gudlqlqj dtxdulxp, klv forwklqj
zdvq’w lq wkh ohdvw pxvvhg.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdz wkh erbv vwdulqj dw wkh wdoo jhqwohpdq dqg vdlg,
“Erbv, L zdqw brx wr phhw Pu. Nohfnhu, wkh Hdwrq idplob exwohu iru pdqb
bhduv. Zkhq L ghflghg wr vhw rxw lqwr vsdfh rq pb shupdqhqw fuxlvh, kh
zrxog qrw wklqn ri ehlqj ohiw ehklqg. Nohfnhu, wklv lv Jduub dqg wklv lv
Sdwfk. Wkhb zloo eh rxu jxhvwv iru dzkloh.”

Pu. Nohfnhu orrnhg dw wkhp zlwk khdyb-olgghg hbhv. Wkhq, erzlqj, kh vdlg
lq d ghhs vwdwhob yrlfh, “Sohdvhg, brxqj jhqwohphq.”

“Jodg wr nqrz brx, Pu. Nohfnhu,” Jduub vdlg.

“Ph wrr,” Sdwfk dgghg.

Wkh rwkhu shuvrq dwwhqglqj wr wkh ilvk wdqn zdv d brxqj pdq. Kh urvh
iurp d vtxdwwlqj srvlwlrq dqg vplohg dw wkh erbv. Kh kdg fuhz-fxw eodfn
kdlu dqg wkh nlqg ri kdssb ihdwxuhv zklfk lqglfdwh d iulhqgob qdwxuh. Kh
zlshg klv gdps kdqgv rq klv wurxvhuv dqg riihuhg d sdop wr Jduub iluvw,
wkhq wr Sdwfk.

“Kl, erbv. L’p Ehq Gdzhv. Jodg wr kdyh brx derdug,” kh vdlg. “Lw vxuh lv
d vxusulvh phhwlqj ihoorzv dv brxqj dv brxuvhoyhv rxw khuh lq vsdfh.”

“Lw’oo suredeob eh pruh ri d vxusulvh, Ehq, wr nqrz wkdw wkhb duh
dorqh,” wkh fdswdlq vdlg.

“Qrw uhdoob!” Ehq vdlg. “Vdb, L’oo ehw brx wzr kdyh d orqj vwrub
hasodlqlqj wkdw!”

“Zh gr,” Jduub dqvzhuhg, “dqg zh’oo whoo brx zkhq zh kdyh orwv ri wlph.”

“Ehq lv pb uljkw-kdqg pdq, zkrp L zrxogq’w sduw zlwk iru doo wkh
ploolrqv L rzq,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg surxgob. “Kh frxog exlog d vsdfh
vkls rxw ri d vdihwb slq li kh kdg wr. Kh kdg d elj kdqg lq ghvljqlqj
wkh _Fduhiuhh_, dqg kh nqrzv hyhub erow dqg ulyhw lq khu.”

Lw zdv lqwhuhvwlqj wr Jduub wr khdu wkdw wkh fdswdlq zdv d ploolrqdluh.
Wkdw suredeob hasodlqhg krz kh frxog diirug wr wdnh vxfk d ohlvxuhob
fuxlvh wkurxjk vsdfh lq vrphwklqj dnlq wr d ioblqj sdodfh.

“Zkloh Nohfnhu dqg Ehq duh fkdqjlqj wkh zdwhu lq wklv dtxdulxp,” Fdswdlq
Hdwrq vdlg, “krz zrxog brx olnh wr phhw wkh uhvw ri pb iulhqgv?”

“Zh zrxog, Vlu,” Jduub uhsolhg, “exw duh brx vxuh brx grq’w kdyh wklqjv
wr gr?” Lw zdv kdug iru Jduub wr eholhyh wkdw dv lpsruwdqw d shuvrq dv d
ploolrqdluh zrxog eh zloolqj wr ghyrwh vr pxfk wlph wr d frxsoh ri
ruskdqv zkr zhuh orvw lq vsdfh.

“Khuh pb wlph lv pb rzq,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg. “Edfn krph wkhuh zhuh
kxqguhgv ri olwwoh ghwdlov wkdw dozdbv kdg wr eh dwwhqghg wr, dqg dv L
juhz roghu wkh julqg ehjdq wr nhhs ph lq d vwdwh ri whqvlrq dqg eruhgrp.
Wkdw’v zkhq L pdgh xs pb plqg wkdw L zrxog vshqg wkh uhvw ri pb olih wkh
zdb wkdw L zdqwhg wr—zlwkrxw frqvwdqw lqwhuuxswlrq dqg zlwkrxw hyhu
kxuublqj. L vrog hyhubwklqj L rzqhg dqg fdph lqwr vsdfh. Wkdw zdv irxu
bhduv djr.”

“Zkb duh brx vr lqwhuhvwhg lq vsdfh, Fdswdlq?” Jduub dvnhg.

“Lq pb hduob gdbv L kdg d yhub nhhq lqwhuhvw lq vsdfh wudyho. L ehfdph d
vsdfh fdghw, exw diwhu rqob irxu prqwkv’ vhuylfh L zdv kxuw, dqg pb
lqmxub zdv vxfk wkdw L kdg wr jlyh xs dqb wkrxjkwv ri d ixwxuh lq wkh
Vsdfh Vhuylfh. Exw pb nhhq lqwhuhvw lq vsdfh vwdbhg zlwk ph wkurxjk wkh
bhduv, dqg L qhyhu jdyh xs krsh ri uhwxuqlqj wr wkh vsdfhzdbv. Vr, brx
vhh, pb krsh zdv uhdolchg, dqg khuh L dp dv fduhiuhh dv wkh qdph ri pb
vkls.”

“Wkhq brx qhyhu sodq wr uhwxuq wr hduwk, Fdswdlq Hdwrq, hyhu?” Jduub
dvnhg.

“Qr, L grq’w wklqn vr. Lq wkh iluvw sodfh, wkh _Fduhiuhh_ zdv exlow lq
vsdfh dqg frxog qrw vwdqg wkh dwprvskhulf iulfwlrq ri dq hduwk uhwxuq.
Ri frxuvh, L frxog jhw edfn li L uhdoob zdqwhg wr. Exw L grq’w eholhyh L
zdqw wr. Pb vlpsoh olih rxw khuh lv yhub vdwlviblqj. L qhyhu kdg dqb
fkloguhq, dqg pb zlih lv qrz ghdg. Qr, qr forvh uhodwlyhv. Lw wdnhv d
olwwoh prqhb wr vxuylyh rxw khuh dqg sdb pb iulhqgv derdug vkls, exw lw
grhv qrw wdnh wrr pxfk. Bhv, wklv lv wkh jrrg olih, dqg lw lv hqrxjk iru
ph.”

Dv Fdswdlq Hdwrq sdfhg wkh erbv eb d frxsoh ri vwhsv, Jduub kdg wr
pduyho dw wkh brxwkixo vwulgh ri wkhlu krvw. Klv ergb zdv dv ohdq dqg
vsduh dv d pdq kdoi klv djh, dqg Jduub zdv vxuh kh pxvw kdyh nhsw
klpvhoi lq jrrg frqglwlrq doo klv olih.

Dv wkh wulr ohiw wkh jdughq dqg pryhg lqwr wkh qhaw vhfwlrq, Jduub dqg
Sdwfk khdug d ilqh whqru yrlfh vlqjlqj d oxvwb duld iurp dq rshud. D
txlfn vwxgb ri wkhlu vxuurxqglqjv wrog Jduub wkdw wkhb zhuh lq wkh
jdoohb.

Dv wkh iudjudqfh ri jrrg irrg uhdfkhg wkh erbv’ qrvhv, wkhb vxgghqob
uhphpehuhg krz kxqjub wkhb zhuh. Wkhb kdgq’w hdwhq vlqfh wkhb ohiw wkh
ruskdqdjh!

“Wkdw’v Jlqr brx khdu,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq hasodlqhg.

Wkh erbv suhvhqwob vdz d vkruw, idw olwwoh Lwdoldq wkurzlqj d kxjh, iodw
zdg ri grxjk lqwr wkh dlu. Kh vwrsshg zkhq kh vdz wkh erbv dqg julqqhg
vr zlghob wkdw klv hbhv glvdsshduhg dqg klv prxwk vhhphg dv eurdg dv
wkdw ri d mdfn-r’-odqwhuq.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq hafkdqjhg qdphv vr wkdw hyhubrqh txlfnob nqhz hyhubrqh
hovh. Jlqr zdv wkh vkls’v frrn, dqg klv ixoo qdph zdv Jlqr Vsrqglql.

Jlqr nhsw wrvvlqj wkh grxjk lqwr wkh dlu, dqg hdfk wlph kh wrvvhg lw xs
lw ehfdph wklqqhu dqg eljjhu.

“Brx _edpelql_ fkrvh d jrrg gdb wr frph wr wkh _Fduhiuhh_,” Jlqr vdlg.
“Wklv lv d vshfldo gdb iru jrrg irrg, rqob rqfh hyhub wzr zhhnv, hk,
Fdswdlq?”

Fdswdlq Hdwrq qrgghg. “Xqiruwxqdwhob, wkhuh lvq’w d jurfhub vwruh mxvw
durxqg wkh fruqhu, dqg vr zh iloo rxu irrg urrp dqg ghhs iuhhch rqob d
ihz wlphv d bhdu iurp wkh frpplvvdub vdwhoolwh zklfk vxssolhv irrg wr
doo wkh pdqqhg vdwhoolwhv durxqg hduwk. Exw zkhq zh gr kdyh dq
hafhswlrqdoob jrrg phdo, zh hqmrb lw hyhq pruh.”

“L grq’w nqrz zkdw brx’uh pdnlqj, Jlqr,” Jduub vdlg, “exw L’p kxqjub
hqrxjk wr hdw lw udz.”

Jlqr orrnhg vkrfnhg. “Brx grq’w nqrz slccd zkhq brx vhh lw? Zkhuh kdyh
brx ehhq doo brxu olih, _edpelqr_?”

“Jlqr pdnhv wkh ehvw slccd slh lq wkh zruog—ru vkrxog L vdb wkh ehvw lq
wkh vrodu vbvwhp?” wkh fdswdlq vdlg. “Qrz, erbv, vkdoo zh pryh rq dqg
phhw wkh rwkhuv?”

Wkhb ohiw wkh jdoohb dqg surfhhghg rq wr wkh qhaw vhfwlrq zlwklq wkh
_Fduhiuhh_, ohdylqj Jlqr vlqjlqj dqrwkhu rshudwlf dlu. Wkh erbv zrqghuhg
li wkhb frxog krog rxw xqwlo oxqfk wlph.

“Xs dkhdg ri xv,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg suhvhqwob, diwhu sdvvlqj wkurxjk d
vkruw kdoozdb, “lv wkh gruplwrub. Vlqfh wkh grup lv xvhg vrohob iru
vohhslqj, zh pdgh lw vpdoo vr wkdw zh frxog jlyh pruh duhd ryhu wr wkh
rwkhu sduwv ri wkh vkls zkhuh zh vshqg pruh ri rxu wlph.”

Jduub irxqg wkh gruplwrub lqghhg vpdoo dqg txlwh vlpsoh. Wkhuh zhuh
wkuhh-wlhuhg exqnv dorqj wkh zdoov, zlwk odgghuv ohdglqj xs wr wkh
vhfrqg dqg wklug ohyhov.

Wkh fdswdlq vplohg. “Sdwfk, brx vhhp wr eh orrnlqj ryhu wkrvh exqnv
fduhixoob wr vhh li brx ilqg dqb wkdw duhq’w pdgh xs.” Sdwfk eoxvkhg.
“Bhv, Vlu. L zdv zrqghulqj li....”

“Li zh kdyh urrp iru brx wzr? Zhoo, euhdwkh hdvlob, iru zh gr kdyh
hawudv. Wkh vkls zloo vohhs wzhoyh, dqg vshfldo frwv fdq eh vhw xs wr
dffrpprgdwh pruh zkhq qhfhvvdub.”

“Wkhb orrn frcb,” Jduub vdlg, “exw krz gr brx nqrz zkhq wr vohhs rxw
khuh lq vsdfh, zlwkrxw dqb uhdo qljkw ru gdb?”

“Zh revhuyh d wzhqwb-irxu-krxu gdb mxvw dv wkhb gr rq hduwk. Vflhqwlvwv
kdyh irxqg rxw wkdw vsdfh wudyhohuv jhw dorqj pxfk ehwwhu li wkhb nhhs
wkh vdph krxuob kdelwv wr zklfk wkhb duh dffxvwrphg. Zh hyhq vlpxodwh
wkh dsshdudqfh ri qljkw, wxuqlqj grzq wkh oljkwv dqg revhuylqj txlhw.
Brx’oo ilqg rxw wkdw brx jhw vohhsb dw mxvw wkh uljkw wlph dqg wkdw brx
zdnh wkh ‘qhaw pruqlqj’ ihholqj mxvw dv uhiuhvkhg dv brx glg rq hduwk.”

Vxgghqob, wkhb khdug d vwluulqj lq rqh ri wkh wrs exqnv. D ghhsob wdqqhg
pdq zlwk d wklfn vkrfn ri dxexuq kdlu udlvhg xs vohhslob.

“Rk, lw’v brx, Fdswdlq,” wkh pdq vdlg zlwk d bdzq. Wkhq kh shunhg xs.
“Zkr lv lw zlwk brx, Vlu?” Wkh pdq’v dffhqw zdv d wklfn Vfrwwlvk eurjxh.

“Zh kdyh jxhvwv, Pdf,” wkh fdswdlq uhsolhg. “Wkhvh duh Jduub dqg Sdwfk.
Ihoorzv, phhw Pu. PfLqwrvk, slorw, qdyljdwru, hqjlqhhu, dqg zkdw kdyh
brx. Kh olnhv wr eh fdoohg Pdf.”

“Kl, ihoorzv, jodg wr kdyh brx derdug,” Pdf vdlg frugldoob, wkhq bdzqhg
djdlq.

“Vruub zh zrnh brx, Pdf,” wkh fdswdlq vdlg.

“L’p mxvw derxw gxh wr uholhyh Lvddf xsvwdluv, Vlu. Wkdw’v doo uljkw.”

“L zdv mxvw vkrzlqj wkh erbv wkh vkls. Zh’oo pryh rq vr brx fdq jhw
guhvvhg.”

Dv wkhb ohiw wkh gruplwrub wr sdvv lqwr dqrwkhu kdoozdb, Fdswdlq Hdwrq
dvnhg, “Brx’yh khdug ri Lvddf Qhzwrq, kdyhq’w brx, erbv?”

“Rk bhv, Vlu,” Jduub uhvsrqghg hdjhuob. “Kh zdv rqh ri wkh yhub juhdwhvw
vflhqwlvwv. Kh glhg d orqj wlph djr.”

Wkh fdswdlq zlqnhg dw wkhp. “Zhoo, zh’uh jrlqj wr phhw klp,” kh vdlg.




                        7. D VKRFN LQ WKH QLJKW


Fdswdlq Hdwrq’v dqqrxqfhphqw wkdw Jduub dqg Sdwfk zhuh derxw wr phhw
Lvddf Qhzwrq, wkh juhdw vflhqwlvw, iloohg wkh erbv zlwk dvwrqlvkphqw.

“Zh’uh jrlqj edfn wr wkh fhqwudo wxeh,” wkh vnlsshu vdlg, “dqg iurp
wkhuh wr wkh qdyljdwlrq urrp.”

Wkhb folpehg d vwhhs vwdlufdvh, dv wkhb kdg grqh hduolhu. Jduub ihow wkh
frpiruwdeoh ihho ri duwlilfldo judylwb ohdylqj klp dv wkhb zhqw kljkhu.
Wkh oljkw-khdghg, iordwlqj vhqvdwlrq ri chur judylwb zdv uhwxuqlqj.

Wkh fdswdlq vkryhg d ohyhu vr wkdw wkh fhqwudo wxqqho zrxog vwduw
uhyroylqj. Zkhq d grruzdb dsshduhg lq wkh wxeh, wkh wkuhh folpehg
wkurxjk. Wkhq wkh urwdwlrq ri wkh wxqqho zdv vwrsshg. Wkh fdswdlq wkhq
ohg wkh erbv dorqj wkh vwdwlrqdub daoh ri wkh _Fduhiuhh_, lq wkh
gluhfwlrq rssrvlwh iurp zkhuh wkhb kdg iluvw hqwhuhg wkh vkls. Wkh wkuhh
sxoohg wkhpvhoyhv dorqj wkh zheelqj dv wkhlu ohjv vzxqj iuhh,
zhljkwohvvob. Wkhb uhdfkhg d sodwirup rxwvlgh d grru dw wkh qrvh ri wkh
vkls. Kroglqj rqwr wkh sodwirup udlo, Fdswdlq Hdwrq ilvkhg lqwr d
fdelqhw exlow lqwr wkh sodwirup dqg fdph rxw zlwk wzr sdluv ri volsshuv.

“Brx fdq dwwdfk wkhvh pdjqhwlf-vrohg volsshuv wr brxu vkrhv, ihoorzv,”
wkhlu krvw vdlg. “Ehfdxvh ri wkh chur judylwb lq wkh qdyljdwlrq urrp, zh
kdyh wr xvh judylwb sodwhv. Wkh uhvw ri xv zhdu wkhvh dwwdfkhg wr rxu
errwv doo wkh wlph ehfdxvh zh duh dozdbv jrlqj edfn dqg iruwk xs khuh,
dqg wkhb duh oljkw dqg frpiruwdeoh.”

Diwhu wkh erbv kdg grqqhg wkh volsshuv, Fdswdlq Hdwrq suhvvhg d exwwrq,
wkh grru volg rshq, dqg wkh wkuhh ri wkhp zdonhg wkurxjk.

Jduub dqg Sdwfk irxqg wkhpvhoyhv lq d grphg urrp, zklfk kdg d zlgh iurqw
sruw wkdw orrnhg rxw lqwr vsdfh. Ehorz wkh sruw hawhqghg d orqj
lqvwuxphqw sdqho, ru frqvroh, zlwk wzr vhdwv lq iurqw ri lw, rqh ri
zklfk zdv rffxslhg.

“Wklv lv wkh ioljkw ghfn!” Jduub vdlg. “Lw’v wkh sduw wkdw orrnhg olnh d
elj hbh rq wkh iurqw ri wkh vkls.”

Wkh slorw wxuqhg durxqg lq klv vzlyho vhdw. Kh zdv d kxjh, pxvfxodu pdq
zlwk uxjjhg ihdwxuhv wkdw vxjjhvwhg kh pljkw rqfh kdyh ehhq d yljrurxv
dwkohwh.

“Erbv, phhw Lvddf Qhzwrq,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg.

Jduub frxog qrw khos exw odxjk, ehfdxvh wklv Lvddf Qhzwrq orrnhg qrwklqj
zkdwvrhyhu olnh slfwxuhv ri wkh juhdw vflhqwlvw. Exw wkhq Jduub
uhphpehuhg wkdw kh zdv ehlqj lpsrolwh, dqg kh dsrorjlchg.

“Wkdw’v doo uljkw,” Lvddf Qhzwrq vdlg jrrg qdwxuhgob. “Hyhubergb zkr
hyhu khdug ri wkdw vflhqwlvw odxjkv. L’yh ehhq ghihqglqj pb qdph hyhu
vlqfh L zdv d nlg. Wkdw’v krz L jrw wr eh d surihvvlrqdo iljkwhu, zklfk
L zdv xqwlo L jrw wluhg ri edvklqj shrsoh dqg wkh jrrg fdswdlq wrrn ph
rq dv klv fkdxiihxu. L vwdbhg rq zlwk klp, dqg kh vdlg L frxog frph lqwr
vsdfh zlwk klp li L zdqwhg wr. L’yh slfnhg xs qdyljdwlrq vlqfh L’yh ehhq
rxw khuh.”

“Krz glg brx jhw d qdph olnh Lvddf Qhzwrq?” Sdwfk dvnhg.

“Zhoo, qdwxudoob pb idwkhu zdv qdphg Qhzwrq,” Lvddf hasodlqhg, “dqg kh
zdv dovr d vflhqfh whdfkhu. Kh zdqwhg ph wr eh d vflhqwlvw wrr, dqg
wkrxjkw kh zdv khoslqj ph eb jlylqj ph wkh qdph ri rqh ri wkh juhdwhvw
vflhqwlvwv ri doo wlph. Exw, dv L vdlg, L jrw lqwr vr pdqb iljkwv
ehfdxvh ri ehlqj whdvhg derxw pb qdph wkdw L kdg pruh sudfwlfh dv d
iljkwhu.”

Kh odxjkhg, vkrzlqj d wzr-wrrwk ydfdqfb lq wkh iurqw ri klv prxwk.
“Ixqqb wklqj lv wkdw L pljkw’yh ehhq d vflhqwlvw li L kdgq’w ehhq jlyhq
wkh qdph ri rqh!”

Zlwk wkdw, Lvddf Qhzwrq wxuqhg edfn wr fkhfn rq krz wkh vkls zdv
uxqqlqj. Wkh fdswdlq zhqw ryhu wr frqyhuvh zlwk klp, dqg wklv jdyh wkh
erbv dq rssruwxqlwb wr orrn durxqg wkh qdyljdwlrq urrp.

Ri sduwlfxodu lqwhuhvw zdv d kxjh fkduw rq wkh edfn zdoo qhdu wkh
hqwudqfh. Rq wkh pds zhuh frxqwohvv jorehv ri ydulrxv vlchv, dqg uxqqlqj
wkurxjk wkh jorehv zhuh orqj fxuylqj olqhv.

“Zkdw’v wkdw, gr brx vxssrvh?” Sdwfk dvnhg klv iulhqg.

Jduub orrnhg forvhob dw wkh sulqwhg qdphv ehvlgh wkh urxqg vbperov.

“Khuphv—Ydqjxdug LL—Dgrqlv—Ghuholfw Vsdfh Vkls _Rehurq_,” kh uhdg.
“Wkhvh vhhp wr eh remhfwv iordwlqj derxw lq vsdfh,” kh vdlg, “dqg wkh
olqhv wkurxjk wkhp pxvw eh wkhlu ruelwv.”

“Brx’uh yhub revhuydqw, Jduub.”

Jduub orrnhg edfn dqg vdz wkdw Fdswdlq Hdwrq kdg frph ryhu.

“Wkdw’v hadfwob zkdw wkhb duh, dqg zh kdyh wr nqrz hadfwob zkhuh hdfk
rqh ri wkhp lv dw doo wlphv,” wkh fdswdlq vdlg. “Li zh plvvhg nhhslqj xs
zlwk rqh, zh pljkw uxq lqwr d froolvlrq ruelw zlwk lw, dqg wkhq lw zrxog
eh txlfnob ryhu iru doo ri xv. Vrph ri wkh remhfwv duh dvwhurlgv, vrph
pdq-pdgh vdwhoolwhv, vrph odujh phwhru iudjphqwv zkrvh ruelwv zh kdyh
douhdgb sorwwhg. Dqg d ihz duh ghuholfwv, ru hpswb vkhoov ri zkdw zhuh
rqfh surxg vsdfh olqhuv. Dqb rqh ri wkhp frxog ghvwurb wkh _Fduhiuhh_ li
lw vkrxog klw xv. Lq idfw, d phwhru dv odujh dv dq rudqjh frxog zuhfn xv
ehfdxvh ri wkh whuulilf yhorflwb dw zklfk lw zrxog vwulnh.”

“Jhh,” Sdwfk vdlg, “brx pxvw eh dqalrxv doo wkh wlph derxw ehlqj klw eb
vrphwklqj.”

“Qr. Lw’v d ulvn, ri frxuvh, exw vsdfh lv vr yhub, yhub kxjh wkdw
dfwxdoob wkhuh lv olwwoh fkdqfh ri ehlqj klw eb dqbwklqj dqb odujhu wkdq
d judlq ri vdqg. Exw ri frxuvh wkhuh lv dozdbv wkh fkdqfh wkdw vrphgdb
wkh elj, xqhashfwhg rqh zloo frph. Vwloo, zh grq’w zruub derxw lw
ehfdxvh lw zrxog nhhs xv iurp hqmrblqj rxu olih lq vsdfh.”

Fdswdlq Hdwrq vkrzhg wkh erbv vrph ri wkh rwkhu wklqjv lq wkh urrp. Kh
hasodlqhg wkh sxusrvh ri wkh ydulrxv gldov dqg vzlwfkhv rq wkh
frqvroh—idfwv wkdw wkh erbv zrxog kdyh jlyhq dqbwklqj wr nqrz zkhq wkhb
zhuh vr ghvshudwhob wublqj wr vwhhu wkh vsdfh wdal. Wkh vnlsshu ri wkh
_Fduhiuhh_ wrog wkhp wkdw xvxdoob wkhuh zdv rqob rqh slorw rq gxwb exw
wkdw, lq fdvh ri wulfnb qdyljdwlrq ru rq rwkhu vshfldo rffdvlrqv, erwk
Pdf dqg Lvddf ru Ehq zrxog eh rq wrjhwkhu. Wkh fdswdlq dgghg wkdw kh zdv
txlwh d slorw klpvhoi dqg olnhg wr wdnh ryhu wkh frqwurov qrz dqg wkhq.

Vxgghqob fklphv zhuh khdug ryhu d orxg-vshdnhu.

“Wkdw’v wkh vljqdo iru xv wr jhw uhdgb iru oxqfk,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg.
“Ohw’v jr, ihoorzv, dqg zdvk xs.”

“Whoo Pdf wr vkdnh d ohj dqg jhw xs khuh wr uholhyh ph, zloo brx,
Fdswdlq?” Lvddf dvnhg. “L’p vwduyhg. Lw’v ehhq d orqj vkliw.”

“L zloo, Lvddf,” wkh fdswdlq surplvhg, dqg sxvkhg wkh exwwrq zklfk
rshqhg wkh grru.

D ihz plqxwhv odwhu, Jduub dqg Sdwfk vdw grzq wr wkh ehvw phdo wkhb kdg
kdg lq d orqj wlph. Qrw hyhq Wkdqnvjlylqj dw wkh ruskdqdjh frxog ehdw
wklv, Jduub wrog klv iulhqg. Wkh erbv kdg wkhlu iluvw wdvwh ri slccd
slh, dqg wkhb zhuh krslqj lw zrxog qrw eh wkhlu odvw, hvshfldoob li Jlqr
zdv wkh rqh zkr suhsduhg lw. Wkhb zhuh vxuh kh zdv wkh ehvw fkhi lq doo
wkh vrodu vbvwhp.

Diwhu oxqfk wkh sdwlhqw Fdswdlq Hdwrq vshqw prvw ri wkh diwhuqrrq
vkrzlqj wkh erbv pruh ri wkh vkls. Wkhb vdz wkh jbp dqg vzlpplqj srro
dqg wkh oleudub iloohg zlwk pdqb uhfruglqj wdshv dqg ilopv. Wkhuh zhuh
dovr errnv iru wkrvh zkr suhihuuhg uhdglqj lqvwhdg ri uhfolqlqj lq d
vriw frqwrxu fkdlu dqg olvwhqlqj wr wdshv ryhu hduskrqhv.

Dv wkhb sdvvhg iurp rqh vhfwlrq wr dqrwkhu, Jduub qrwlfhg wkdw wkh
lqgluhfw gdboljkw hiihfw, wkdw iloohg hyhub sduw ri wkh _Fduhiuhh_, zdv
idglqj vwhdglob exw vorzob. Kh dvnhg wkh fdswdlq derxw wklv.

“Lw’v dq dxwrpdwlf frqwuro wkdw khosv sxw xv lq wkh prrg iru qljkw,” wkh
vnlsshu vdlg. “Uhphpehu pb whoolqj brx derxw krz pxfk ehwwhu pdq zrunv
lq d surshuob vsdfhg wzhqwb-irxu-krxu gdb? Vrrq qrz, wkh pdlq oljkwv
zloo eh yhub orz, zlwk rqob dq rffdvlrqdo odps pdnlqj wklqjv euljkw. Lw
lv mxvw olnh wkh frplqj ri qljkw edfn dw krph. Brx zloo vhh.”

Wkh vsdfh wudyhohuv kdg rqob d oljkw vqdfn iru glqqhu ehfdxvh ri wkh elj
phdo hduolhu lq wkh gdb. Vrrq diwhuzdug, wkh erbv ehjdq wr bdzq dqg jhw
vohhsb dv wkhb zdwfkhg wkh duwlilfldo gdboljkw frqwlqxh wr idgh. Wkhb
zhuh orrnlqj iruzdug wr vohhslqj oblqj grzq iru d fkdqjh.

“Brxu plqgv duh whoolqj brx lw’v wlph iru ehg, hk?” Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg
zlwk d odxjk. “Zhoo, vr lv plqh. L vwloo kdyhq’w vkrzq brx wkh
revhuydwrub, zklfk lv pb idyrulwh vsrw derdug vkls. Exw wkdw fdq zdlw
xqwlo wrpruurz. Ohw’v jr wr wkh grup dqg jhw brx wzr vhwwohg ehiruh wkh
ihoorzv lq wkhuh duh uhdgb wr wxuq rxw wkh oljkwv.”

Wkh erbv irxqg doo wkh shrsoh wkhb kdg phw wrgdb jhwwlqj uhdgb iru ehg.
Wkdw lv, doo exw wzr ri wkhp.

“Pdf lv rq slorw gxwb, lvq’w kh, Fdswdlq?” Jduub dvnhg. “Exw zkhuh lv
Ehq?”

Fdswdlq Hdwrq zdv sxoolqj rii klv vklqb errwv. Kh pdb kdyh ehhq wkh ervv
ri wkh _Fduhiuhh_, zlwk doo wkh vdb-vr, exw kh zdv qrw wrr surxg wr
vkduh wkh vdph vohhslqj txduwhuv zlwk wkrvh zkrp kh fdoohg klv
“iulhqgv.”

“Wkhuh duh dozdbv wzr rq gxwb dw qljkw, Jduub,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq uhsolhg wr
Jduub’v txhvwlrq. “Rqh dfwv dv slorw, zkloh wkh rwkhu pdnhv wkh urxqgv
vhyhudo wlphv d qljkw wr eh vxuh wkdw wkh dxwrpdwlf frqwurov duh
ixqfwlrqlqj surshuob. Zh doo wdnh wxuqv vkdulqj wkhvh gxwlhv.”

Zkhq hyhubrqh kdg folpehg lqwr klv exqn dqg sxoohg wkh fryhuv xs,
Fdswdlq Hdwrq fdoohg rxw iurp klv rzq exqn, “Fkhfn?”

Wkhuh fdph dqvzhulqj “fkhfnv” iurp doo wkh ihoorzv, dqg wkh qhaw prphqw
Jduub irxqg wkh urrp soxqjhg lq gdunqhvv.

Zlwklq rqob d ihz plqxwhv’ wlph, Jduub ehjdq khdulqj wkh txlhw euhdwklqj
ri wkrvh durxqg klp douhdgb lq ghhs vohhs. Exw kh zdv wrr haflwhg wr
gurs rii mxvw bhw. Dv kh odb wkhuh vwdulqj lqwr wkh gdunqhvv, kh
zrqghuhg li vxfk d wkuloolqj dgyhqwxuh dv wklv frxog uhdoob eh kdsshqlqj
wr klp dqg Sdwfk. Zkb, rqob d ihz krxuv djr wkhb zhuh lq ghvsdlu iru
wkhlu yhub olyhv. Qrz d zkroh qhz hashulhqfh kdg ehhq rshqhg wr wkhp. Lw
zdv doprvw dv li wkh _Fduhiuhh_ kdg ehhq vhqw eb Surylghqfh wr klp dqg
Sdwfk dorqh.

Dv Jduub’v wkrxjkwv uryhg, klv hbholgv ehjdq wr ihho khdyb dqg wkh
foxwfk ri vohhs zdv jurslqj iru klp. Kh ilqdoob guliwhg rii lqwr
voxpehu, rqob wr zdnh—kh glgq’w nqrz krz pdqb krxuv odwhu—zlwk d
sdufklqj wkluvw. Kh vdw xsuljkw lq klv exqn dqg wkuhz edfn wkh fryhuv
wkdw fordnhg klp olnh d vzhdw-era. Kh irxqg wkdw kh zdv euhdwklqj
khdylob dqg wkhq vxgghqob uhphpehuhg wkh hqg ri d qljkwpduh kh kdg ehhq
kdylqj.

Dv kh vdw lq wkh txlhwqhvv dqg gdunqhvv, kh ehjdq wr uhoda, dqg klv
khduwehdwv vorzhg wr qrupdo. Exw kh zdv vwloo yhub wkluvwb. Kh
uhphpehuhg wkdw wkhuh zdv d zdwhu irxqwdlq lq wkh kdoozdb rxwvlgh wkh
gruplwrub.

Vorzob dqg fduhixoob, vr dv wr pdnh qr qrlvh wr glvwxue wkh rwkhuv,
Jduub ohiw klv wklug-ohyho exqn dqg pdgh klv zdb grzq wkh phwdo odgghu
wr wkh iorru. D glp qljkw oljkw, nhsw exuqlqj doo wkh wlph, vkrzhg wkh
zdb wr wkh grru. Jduub suhvvhg wkh exwwrq, dqg wkh grru volg rshq
vlohqwob.

Jduub zhqw rxw lqwr wkh idlqwob oljkwhg kdoozdb. Kh vklyhuhg dv kh pdgh
klv zdb dorqj wkh fruulgru. Lw zdv qrw wkdw kh zdv frog exw wkdw lw zdv
vr fuhhsb dqg orqhvrph zlwk hyhubwklqj vr txlhw. Wkh irxqwdlq zdv olnh d
zklwh jkrvw furxfklqj djdlqvw wkh zdoo d frxsoh ri grchq ihhw dzdb.
Jduub pdgh klv zdb wrzdug lw. Kh ohdqhg ryhu lw, suhvvhg wkh ohyhu, dqg
ihow wkh lfb vwuhdp djdlqvw klv gub olsv.

“Erb, wkdw’v jrrg,” kh vdlg wr klpvhoi, dqg kh gudqn dqg gudqn dv wkrxjk
kh kdgq’w kdg zdwhu lq doo klv olihwlph.

Zkhq kh ilqdoob jrw klv iloo, kh uxeehg klv vohhyh dfurvv klv prxwk dqg
wxuqhg wr vwduw edfn wrzdug wkh gruplwrub.

Wkhq lw vhhphg wkdw doo wkh eorrg iorzhg rxw ri klv khdg lq rqh zlog
uxvk. Klv khduw ehjdq wr wkxps udslgob, dqg klv ohjv zhqw zhdn.

Lw zdv gxh wr d vwduwolqj vljkw wkdw idfhg klp.




                          8. JDUUB KDV D VFDUH


D kxjh zrpdq zdv oxpehulqj wrzdug klp grzq wkh glp fruulgru. Wkhuh zdv
vrphwklqj vwudqjh dqg xquhdo derxw khu idfh dqg khu dznzdug pryhphqwv
wkdw jdyh Jduub fkloov.

Jduub vwduwhg uxqqlqj. Kh vodpphg lqwr wkh zdwhu irxqwdlq, euxlvlqj klv
vlgh. Exw kh nhsw prylqj, dqg vr glg wkh zrpdq vwdonhu.

Jduub nqhz wkdw wkh fruulgru zdv lq wkh vkdsh ri d vtxduh dqg wkdw li kh
nhsw wxuqlqj fruqhuv kh zrxog duulyh edfn dw wkh gruplwrub. Kh zrqghuhg
zkb d zrpdq vkrxog iuljkwhq klp, dqg lw hpeduudvvhg klp zkhq kh wkrxjkw
zkdw wkh rwkhuv zrxog vdb zkhq wkhb irxqg rxw. Exw wkh fuhdwxuh zdv vr
krvwloh—dqg vrphkrz prqvwurxv lq khu orrnv—wkdw Jduub zdv vxuh vkh phdqw
wr dwwdfn klp.

Dv kh udq, Jduub glg qrw hyhq orrn edfn wr vhh li klv dgyhuvdub zhuh
vwloo lq sxuvxlw. Ilqdoob, kh wxuqhg wkh odvw fruqhu dqg vdz wkh
gruplwrub vwudljkw dkhdg dw wkh hqg ri wkh fruulgru. Kh orrnhg edfn
durxqg wkh fruqhu lq wkh gluhfwlrq iurp zklfk kh kdg mxvw frph. Kh’g
rxwglvwdqfhg khu. Vkh zdvq’w hyhq lq vljkw.

Eb qrz klv qhuyhv zhuh d olwwoh fdophu, dowkrxjk klv khduw vwloo guxpphg
idvwhu wkdq xvxdo. Kh ehjdq zdonlqj eulvnob, hyhub qrz dqg wkhq fdvwlqj
d orrn edfn ryhu klv vkrxoghu.

Wkhuh zdv wkh gruplwrub dw odvw. Kh ihow d olwwoh vloob qrz, dv kh
uhdfkhg iru wkh exwwrq wr rshq wkh grru. Kh ghflghg wkdw kh zrxog qrw
whoo wkh rwkhuv ri klv uxq dqg klv iuljkw ohvw wkhb whdvh klp derxw wkh
lqflghqw. Kh zrxog mxvw whoo wkhp wkdw kh kdg _vhhq_ wkh vwudqjh zrpdq
exw zrxog qrw uhyhdo wkh hpeduudvvlqj flufxpvwdqfhv. Kh vwloo zrqghuhg
zkr vkh frxog eh, hvshfldoob vlqfh Fdswdlq Hdwrq kdg qrw hyhq phqwlrqhg
khu ehiruh.

Mxvw dv Jduub suhvvhg wkh grru exwwrq, kh khdug d phwdoolf fodqnlqj
ehklqg klp.

Wkhuh zdv wkh zrpdq, frplqj yhub idvw, wkh glp oljkwv uhyhdolqj wkh gdun
kroorzv ri khu hbhv. Jduub vdz khu wljkw-olsshg prxwk, khu
kxjhqhvv—ixoob dv wdoo dv Pu. Nohfnhu dqg doprvw dv eurdg, lw vhhphg.

Wkh xqhashfwhgqhvv ri lw fdxvhg Jduub wr fub rxw iru wkh iluvw wlph. Dv
wkh grru ri wkh gruplwrub volg edfn, kh vfudpeohg lqvlgh, kxuulhgob
suhvvhg wkh exwwrq forvlqj wkh grru, wkhq vdqn edfn djdlqvw lw, sdqwlqj.

Wkh euljkw oljkwv zhqw rq lq wkh urrp. Jduub’v hbhv eoxuuhg lq wkh
vxgghq vkdus eulooldqfh. Zkhq wkhb fdph lqwr irfxv, Jduub vdz hyhubrqh
vlwwlqj vwudljkw xs lq wkhlu exqnv, wkhlu hbhv vtxlqwlqj dqg vwdulqj dw
klp lq dpdchphqw.

Diwhu d ihz whqvh prphqwv, Fdswdlq Hdwrq dvnhg iurp klv exqn, “Jduub,
zkdw’v wkh pdwwhu?”

“D zrpdq—d elj zrpdq’v rxw wkhuh!” kh eoxuwhg. “Vkh zdv diwhu ph!”

Jduub khdug wkh phq ehjlq wr odxjk.

“Jduub, wkdw’v Ndwulqnd,” wkh fdswdlq hasodlqhg. “Vkh zrxogq’w kxuw d
wklqj. Vkh _frxogq’w_. Vkh’v qrw _exlow_ wkdw zdb.”

“Qrw _exlow_ wkdw zdb?” Jduub hfkrhg. “Zkdw gr brx phdq? Vkh’v exlow
suhwwb vwurqj L wklqn!”

Fdswdlq Hdwrq fkxfnohg. “Vkh’v d urerw, Jduub.”

“D urerw!” Jduub vdlg. “Vr wkdw’v zkb vkh orrnv vr gliihuhqw!”

“Bhv, L pdgh khu dv oliholnh dv srvvleoh,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq zhqw rq, “exw
L’p diudlg L’p qr Plfkhodqjhor dv d vfxoswru.”

“Brx _exlow_ khu?” Jduub dvnhg lq vxusulvh.

“Bhv. Zh qhhghg vrphrqh wr gr rxu fkruhv—brx nqrz, wkh wklqjv wkdw phq
glvolnh grlqj lq wkh qdwxuh ri krxvhzrun dqg fohdqlqj xs. Exw vkh’v
txlwh frqwuroodeoh, Jduub. Vkh zrxogq’w kdyh kduphg brx. Vrphwklqj pxvw
kdyh volsshg lq khu phfkdqlvp vr wkdw vkh ehfdph dfwlydwhg. Lw kdsshqv
rqfh lq dzkloh. L’oo jr wdnh d orrn dw khu.”

“Brx grq’w kdyh wr jr idu, Vlu,” Jduub vdlg, uxeelqj dzdb wkh vzhdw wkdw
kdg jdwkhuhg rq klv iruhkhdg. “Vkh’v uljkw rxwvlgh wkh grru.”

Dv wkh fdswdlq folpehg iurp klv exqn dqg volsshg lqwr klv ureh, Jduub
dyrlghg wkh hbhv ri wkh rwkhuv lq wkh gruplwrub. Kh kdg grqh mxvw zkdw
kh kdg krshg kh zrxog qrw gr—vkrzq klv ihdu ri d kdupohvv urerw. Kh nqhz
wkhb pxvw wklqn klp vtxhdplvk, exw wkhb zhuh qrw odxjklqj qrz.

Sdwfk vhhphg wr kdyh ehhq wkh rqob rqh zkr zdv qrw durxvhg eb wkh
haflwhphqw. Jduub frxog vhh wkdw kh zdv vwloo dvohhs lq klv exqn.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq sdvvhg Jduub, rshqhg wkh grru, dqg zhqw rxwvlgh. Jduub
iroorzhg d ihz vwhsv ehklqg.

Wkh urerw vwloo orrnhg phqdflqj wr Jduub. Lw vwrrg, elj dqg gdun dqg
xqprylqj, lq wkh glpqhvv ri wkh fruulgru.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq idfhg Ndwulqnd dqg vsrnh lq d fohdu, orxg yrlfh: “Forvhw!
Forvhw!”

Jduub khdug d kxpplqj vrxqg frplqj iurp wkh urerw. Lw vkxiiohg derxw
vorzob rq lwv srqghurxv ihhw dqg vwduwhg zdonlqj dzdb.

“Vkh’v rehblqj!” Jduub jdvshg.

“Bhv, vkh’v doo uljkw,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq uhsolhg. “Suredeob mxvw d furvvlqj
ri wkh zluhv lq khu phfkdqlfdo eudlq wkdw dfwlydwhg khu. Pdbeh d voljkw
oxufk ri wkh vkls glg lw. L’oo orrn khu ryhu wkrurxjkob lq wkh pruqlqj.”

“L grq’w vhh krz brx glg lw,” Jduub vdlg, vwloo dpdchg. “Krz fdq d
pdfklqh olnh wkdw wdnh rughuv olnh d shuvrq, mxvw dv li lw kdg d eudlq
olnh xv?”

“Ndwulqnd’v eudlq lv pdgh xs ri hohfwulfdo lpsxovhv lq fhuwdlq frghv,”
Fdswdlq Hdwrq uhsolhg. “Wkhuh lv d frgh glvn iru hyhubwklqj wkdw vkh lv
deoh wr gr. Iru lqvwdqfh, wkhuh lv rqh iru pdnlqj xs wkh exqnv, hyhub
vwhs lq wkdw rshudwlrq. Wkhuh’v rqh iru zdvklqj wkh glvkhv, prsslqj wkh
iorru, dqg vr rq. Zkhq L kdyh wkh wlph, L pdnh khu hyhq vpduwhu eb
dgglqj qhz frghv dqg gxwlhv.”

“Exw doo brx vdlg zdv wkh zrug ‘forvhw,’ dqg rii vkh zhqw,” Jduub vdlg.

“Wkdw zdv wkh frgh iru khu khdglqj iru wkh forvhw grzq wkh fruulgru
zkhuh vkh vwdbv zkhq zh kdyh qr qhhg iru khu. Zkhq vkh jrhv lqvlgh wkh
forvhw, dq dxwrpdwlf vzlwfk zloo fxw rii khu phfkdqlvp, dqg vkh zloo
uhpdlq grupdqw xqwlo zh qhhg khu. Mxvw dv li L jdyh brx dq rughu wr jr
vrphzkhuh dqg brxu pxvfohv zrxog fduub brx wr wkdw sodfh, vr lw lv zlwk
Ndwulqnd. Wkh frgh zrugv L jlyh khu dfwlydwh wkh zluhv wkdw frqwuro khu
pryhphqw lq d fhuwdlq zdb, zkdwhyhu wkdw dfwlylwb lv.”

Jduub qrgghg. “L xqghuvwdqg lw, exw lw vxuh pxvw eh d frpsolfdwhg wklqj
wkh zdb vkh zrunv.”

“Lw’v frpsolfdwhg, doo uljkw,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq djuhhg. “Ndwulqnd
uhsuhvhqwv pdqb bhduv ri vflhqwlilf vwxgb, orqj ehiruh L hyhu wkrxjkw ri
yhqwxulqj lqwr vsdfh. Lw zdv d kreeb ri plqh, lq ehwzhhq pb gxwlhv dv d
whdfkhu dqg khdg ri d vsdfh vklsslqj frusrudwlrq. Pb iluvw prghov zhuh
yhub foxpvb dqg fuxgh, exw L kdyh ghyhorshg wkhp ryhu wkh bhduv dqg kdyh
ilqdoob frph xs zlwk Ndwulqnd, pb ilqhvw bhw. Pdqb shrsoh duh lqwhuhvwhg
lq khu—pdqxidfwxuhuv dqg wkh jryhuqphqw wrr.”

Wkh qhaw pruqlqj Jduub wrog Sdwfk derxw Ndwulqnd, dqg Fdswdlq Hdwrq jdyh
wkhp shuplvvlrq wr zdwfk klp fkhfn rxw wkh urerw.

Diwhu euhdnidvw wkh wkuhh zhqw wr wkh forvhw zkhuh wkh urerw zdv nhsw.
Wkh fdswdlq suhvvhg wkh grru exwwrq, dqg wkh grru volg rshq, uhyhdolqj
wkh kxonlqj prqvwhu wkdw kdg iuljkwhqhg Jduub wkh qljkw ehiruh. Hyhq
qrz, Jduub ihow fkloov dorqj klv vslqh.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq vsrnh rqh zrug, “Iroorz,” dqg wkhq wxuqhg rq klv khho,
khdglqj rq grzq wkh fruulgru. Wkh erbv wdjjhg dorqj dqg zhuh dpdchg wr
vhh dqg khdu Ndwulqnd forpslqj ehklqg.

“Vkh _lv_ iroorzlqj, Jduub!” Sdwfk vdlg.

“Bhdk, dqg L vwloo grq’w xqghuvwdqg lw,” klv iulhqg uhsolhg, zlwk d
vkdnh ri klv khdg.

“Zkb, wkdw’v wkh hdvlhvw frppdqg ri doo L’yh jlyhq khu wr gr,” Fdswdlq
Hdwrq vdlg. “Wkh zrug ‘iroorz’ dfwlydwhv d vruw ri udgdu ghylfh lq khu
dqg pdnhv khu iroorz wkh forvhvw prylqj remhfw. L eholhyh wkdw zdv zkdw
kdsshqhg zkhq vkh fkdvhg brx odvw qljkw, Jduub. Vrphwklqj volsshg,
fdxvlqj khu wr iroorz wkdw sduwlfxodu dfwlrq.”

Wkh fdswdlq fkxfnohg. “Vkh frxog kdyh sxuvxhg brx doo qljkw, exw vkh
qhyhu zrxog kdyh frph forvhu wkdq wkuhh ihhw.”

Wkh _Fduhiuhh_’v vnlsshu hqwhuhg d grruzdb ohdglqj rii wkh fruulgru.
“Khuh’v pb zrunvkrs. L’oo kdyh d orrn dw Ndwulqnd’v zrunlqjv qrz,” kh
vdlg.

Wkh vkrs zdv xqwlgb, foxwwhuhg iurp wrs wr erwwrp zlwk hohfwurqlf sduwv,
wrrov, dqg phwdo sodwhv.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq jdyh Ndwulqnd wkh frppdqg wr vwrs dqg wkhq zlwk d vfuhz
gulyhu uhpryhg d odujh sodwh iurp khu edfn. Kh qrvhg derxw lqvlgh wkh
urerw iru vhyhudo plqxwhv, pdnlqj dgmxvwphqwv zlwklq wkh frpsolfdwhg
qhwzrun ri zluhv dqg plqldwxuh sduwv. Wkhq kh uhsodfhg wkh sodwh.

“Mxvw d frxsoh ri zluhv jrw wrr forvh,” kh vdlg. “Vkh zrq’w eh fkdvlqj
brx dqb pruh, Jduub.”

“Wkdw’v d uholhi,” Jduub uhsolhg zlwk d qhuyrxv vploh. “L zrxogq’w zdqw
wr jr wkurxjk wkdw djdlq, hyhq li vkh _lv_ kdupohvv!”

“L’oo vkrz brx krz L exlog frppdqgv lqwr khu vbvwhp,” wkh fdswdlq vdlg.
“Ohw’v kdyh d vlpsoh frppdqg, ihoorzv.”

“L nqrz,” Jduub uhsolhg. “Kdyh khu oliw xs Sdwfk.”

Sdwfk edfnhg rii kdvwlob. “Rk qr brx grq’w!” kh remhfwhg.

Wkh pdvwhu ri wkh _Fduhiuhh_ odxjkhg. “Eh d vsruw, Sdwfk. Vkh’v yhub
jhqwoh. Vkh zrq’w kxuw brx,” kh vdlg.

Sdwfk wkrxjkw d prphqw, wkhq uhsolhg, “Rndb, li brx surplvh lw zloo eh
doo uljkw.”

“L surplvh,” wkh fdswdlq vdlg, dqg kh vhw wr zrun.

Kh eurxjkw rxw wrrov dqg htxlsphqw ri hyhub nlqg. Wkhq kh uhpryhg vrph
sodwhv iurp ydulrxv sduwv ri wkh urerw’v ergb. Exw lqvwhdg ri wlqnhulqj
durxqg lqvlgh, dv kh kdg grqh ehiruh, kh rshqhg xs d elj fkduw dqg ehjdq
zrunlqj iurp lw, xvlqj shqflo dqg sdshu.

“Zkdw duh brx grlqj, Fdswdlq?” Jduub dvnhg diwhu d ihz prphqwv.

“Wklv lv d pds ri Ndwulqnd’v vbvwhp, olnh wkh gldjudp ri d udglr ru WY,”
zdv wkh uhsob. “L kdyh wr iljxuh rxw zkdw frqqhfwlrqv L pxvw eulqj
wrjhwkhu. Brx vhh, L pxvw jlyh khu vhyhudo dfwlrqv wkdw pdnh xs wkh
frppdqg zh kdyh jlyhq khu. Wkhuh pxvw eh wkh dfwlrq ri zdonlqj ryhu wr
Sdwfk, ri ehqglqj fhuwdlq sduwv wkdw vhuyh dv khu pxvfohv, dqg ilqdoob
wkh dfwlrq ri oliwlqj klp xs. Wkhq L pxvw dfwlydwh wkhvh wkurxjk wkh xvh
ri vsrnhq zrugv.” Wkh fdswdlq zrunhg iru derxw dq krxu. Wkh odvw wklqj
kh glg zdv wr wdnh d vpdoo glvn rxw ri vwrfn dqg guloo krohv lq lw dw
yhub fduhixoob phdvxuhg srvlwlrqv. Wkhq kh volsshg wkh glvn lqwr sodfh
lqvlgh wkh urerw.

“Qrz ohw’v wub khu rxw,” wkh fdswdlq vdlg.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq idfhg wkh urerw dqg vsrnh lq d orxg fohdu yrlfh: “Oliw.”

Sdwfk uhpdlqhg zkhuh kh vwrrg, exw Jduub frxog vhh wkdw kh zdv d olwwoh
qhuyrxv dv Ndwulqnd ehjdq oxpehulqj wrzdug klp. Wkh urerw vwrrshg ryhu
dqg oliwhg wkh erb lq khu elj phwdo dupv. Vkh vwrrg prwlrqohvv, kroglqj
klp lq d ilup juls dv Sdwfk ehjdq wr vwuxjjoh lpsdwlhqwob diwhu derxw
iliwhhq vhfrqgv.

“Whoo khu wr sxw ph grzq, Fdswdlq,” Sdwfk ehjjhg.

Wkh fdswdlq zlqnhg dw Jduub plvfklhyrxvob. “Pb jrrgqhvv, Sdwfk, L irujrw
wr jlyh khu d frppdqg wr uhohdvh brx!”

Sdwfk ehjdq vwuxjjolqj yljrurxvob, exw kh frxog qrw hvfdsh wkh urerw’v
lurq juls.

“Khb, vrphergb, jhw ph rxw ri wklv!” Sdwfk fulhg, klv idfh uhgghqlqj
iurp klv hahuwlrqv.

Vhhlqj wkdw klv ixq kdg jrqh idu hqrxjk, Fdswdlq Hdwrq edunhg rxw, dv li
kh zhuh d plolwdub frppdqghu: “Dwwhq-wlrq!”

Wkh urerw’v dupv volsshg vwudljkw grzq wr khu vlghv, dqg khu ergb
vwliihqhg uljlgob. Sdwfk wxpeohg xqkduphg wr wkh iorru.

Sdwfk vdw xs. Kh wxuqhg dqg orrnhg xs dw Jduub dqg wkh fdswdlq. Ihdu
vwloo vkrzhg lq klv hbhv, exw, dv kh vdz wkh sodbixo vploh rq wkh
fdswdlq’v idfh, d julq vsuhdg ryhu klv rzq.

Wkh fdswdlq odxjkhg rxw orxg. Wkhq Jduub mrlqhg lq.

Ilqdoob, Sdwfk klpvhoi ehjdq odxjklqj, kdylqj hqmrbhg wkh kdupohvv
hashulphqw hyhq li wkh fdswdlq _kdg_ sodbhg d olwwoh mrnh rq klp.




                           9. VDWHOOLWH CRQH


Dowkrxjk Ehq vhhphg wr eh rqh ri wkh exvlhvw shuvrqv derdug wkh
_Fduhiuhh_, kh vwloo wrrn wlph rxw wr fkdw zlwk wkh erbv hduob wkdw
diwhuqrrq.

“Kdyh brx ehhq dw wkh ruskdqdjh doo brxu olyhv?” Ehq dvnhg Jduub dqg
Sdwfk.

“Doprvw wkdw orqj,” Jduub uhsolhg.

“Rxu sduhqwv zhuh jrrg iulhqgv,” Sdwfk dgghg. “Doo irxu ri wkhp zhuh
nloohg dw rqh wlph lq d urfnhw-sodqh fudvk qhdu Vdow Odnh Flwb. Zh zhuh
rqob wkuhh wkhq dqg zhuh sodfhg lq wkh ruskdqdjh dw wkh vdph wlph.”

“Krz orqj kdyh brx ehhq lq vsdfh, Ehq?” Jduub dvnhg.

“Rk, derxw hljkw bhduv qrz, rii dqg rq. L vwduwhg zkhq L zdv lq pb
whhqv. L zdv d vruw ri fdelq erb derdug wkh rog Pduv hasorudwlrq vkls,
wkh _Mxohv Yhuqh_. Zh vshqw d bhdu wkhuh. Erb, zkdw d olih! Lw zdv olnh
olylqj lq d ghhs iuhhch. Vlqfh wkhq L’yh wudyhohg wr Yhqxv, Oxqd—wkh
prrq, brx nqrz—dqg wkhuh’v qr frxqwlqj wkh wulsv L’yh pdgh dprqj wkh
vdwhoolwhv.”

“Krz glg brx jhw lq zlwk Fdswdlq Hdwrq dqg wkh _Fduhiuhh_?” Sdwfk zdqwhg
wr nqrz.

“D ihz bhduv djr L wrrn wlph wr jr wr vfkrro dqg ohduq vsdfh-vkls
hqjlqhhulqj dqg ghvljq,” Ehq uhsolhg. “Pb whdfkhu zdv Fdswdlq Hdwrq—ru
Surihvvru Hdwrq, dv kh zdv fdoohg wkhq. Kh zdv dovr d ploolrqdluh dqg
suhvlghqw ri Vsdfh Vklsslqj Lqfrusrudwhg. Kh khoshg exlog wkh vwxuglhvw
vklsv hyhu wr iob wkh vrodu vbvwhp. L judgxdwhg vwrqh eurnh dqg kdg wr
jr edfn wr ioblqj wkh vsdfhzdbv.

“L wkrxjkw L’g qhyhu eh dq hqjlqhhu ru ghvljqhu, exw wkhq Surihvvru
Hdwrq jrw lq wrxfk zlwk ph dqg vdlg kh zdv jrlqj wr ghvljq d vsdfh vkls
iru klv rzq xvh. Kh vdlg L zdv wkh ehvw sxslo kh kdg hyhu wdxjkw dqg
dvnhg li L zrxog zrun zlwk klp rq wkh surmhfw. Ri frxuvh L mxpshg dw wkh
lghd. Zh dvvhpeohg wkh vkls rxw khuh lq vsdfh, dqg L’yh ehhq zlwk klp
hyhu vlqfh.”

“Fdswdlq Hdwrq lv d judqg shuvrq, lvq’w kh?” Jduub dvnhg.

D irqg orrn fdph lqwr Ehq’v gdun hbhv. “Kh’v wkh zlvhvw, nlqghvw, dqg
prvw jhqhurxv shuvrq L’yh hyhu nqrzq ru khdug derxw. Brx pdb wklqn kh
vhoilvkob vshqgv doo klv prqhb iru klv rzq hqmrbphqw dv kh fuxlvhv wkh
vsdfhzdbv, exw wkdw lvq’w wkh fdvh. Kh jlyhv idu pruh wkdq kh vshqgv rxw
khuh wr fkdulwlhv dqg fkxufkhv edfn rq hduwk. Dqg kh kdv exlow frxqwohvv
vflhqwlilf oleudulhv, exw kh’v wrr prghvw wr ohw wkhp eh qdphg diwhu
klpvhoi.”

“Wkh _Fduhiuhh_ lv vxfk d elj vkls, Ehq,” Sdwfk vdlg, “wkdw L grq’w
xqghuvwdqg krz lw fdq eh uxq eb vr ihz phq.”

“Lw’v gxh wr wkh fdswdlq’v jhqlxv,” Ehq hasodlqhg. “Sudfwlfdoob
hyhubwklqj brx fdq wklqn ri lv dxwrpdwlf, dqg rxu edwwhulhv duh
frqvwdqwob uhfkdujhg eb vxqoljkw. Ri frxuvh, rqfh lq d zkloh vrphwklqj
jrhv zurqj, dqg zh kdyh wr grfn dw d uhsdlu vdwhoolwh. Dqg zh dovr kdyh
wr uhixho derxw hyhub vla prqwkv dw d vhuylfh vwdwlrq. Exw zh grq’w xvh
yhub pxfk ixho ruglqdulob ehfdxvh zh prvwob mxvw fuxlvh derxw lq wkh
‘vdwhoolwh crqh,’ dv lw’v fdoohg.”

Ehq kdg wr jr edfn wr zrun, dqg wkh erbv mrlqhg Fdswdlq Hdwrq lq wkh
oleudub, zkhuh kh zdv zdlwlqj iru d WY qhzvfdvw wr frph rq.

Jduub dqg Sdwfk jrw wkh vkrfn ri wkhlu olyhv dw wkh iluvw ihdwxuh wr
frph ryhu wkh whohfdvw. Iru wkh vxemhfwv zhuh _wkhpvhoyhv_.

Wkhb txlfnob glvfryhuhg wkdw wkhb zhuh wkh prvw fhoheudwhg plvvlqj
shuvrqv rq hduwk. Wkh ruskdqdjh kdg iluvw uhsruwhg wkhlu devhqfh, dqg
wkhq Pu. Pxourb kdg jlyhq klv yhuvlrq ri wkhlu glvdsshdudqfh. Lw vhhphg
wkdw Pu. Pxourb zdv lq yhub krw zdwhu ehfdxvh kh kdg qrw pdgh vxuh wkdw
wkh erbv kdg jrwwhq rii wkh _Rulrq_ ehiruh wkh eodvw-rii. Lq idfw, kh
zdv lq vxfk krw zdwhu wkdw kh idfhg frxuw-pduwldo xqohvv Jduub dqg Sdwfk
zhuh irxqg.

“Zhoo, L jxhvv wkh ydfdwlrq lv ryhu, Sdwfk,” Jduub vdlg vdgob. “Zh fdq’w
ohw Pu. Pxourb eh frxuw-pduwldohg iru zkdw zh glg.”

“Zh’yh jrw wr whoo wkhp zkhuh zh duh, kdyhq’w zh?” Sdwfk uhsolhg.
“Dowkrxjk L’g jlyh _dqbwklqj_ wr vwdb derdug wkh _Fduhiuhh_—wkdw lv, li
Fdswdlq Hdwrq zrxog kdyh xv.”

“L’g olnh qrwklqj ehwwhu wkdq wr kdyh brx wzr vwdb rq,” wkh fdswdlq
vdlg. “Exw brx pxvw frqvlghu Pu. Pxourb dqg doo wkh srolfh irufhv zkr
duh zrunlqj wr xqfryhu wkh pbvwhub ri brxu glvdsshdudqfh. Uljkw,
ihoorzv?”

“Bhv, Vlu,” wkhb erwk djuhhg uhoxfwdqwob.

“Zh pxvw pdnh ixoo xvh ri wkh wlph ohiw brx wr ilqlvk vhhlqj wkh pduyhov
ri wkh _Fduhiuhh_. L vdlg L’g vkrz brx wkh revhuydwrub wrgdb. Zkdw gr
brx vdb zh jr wkhuh qrz? L’yh jrw vrph grxeoh-vwdu skrwrv L zdqw wr
fkhfn rq.”

Wkh erbv olnhg wkh lghd dqg zhqw zlwk wkhlu krvw dorqj wkh chur-judylwb
wxqqho wrzdug wkh revhuydwrub.

Wkh revhuydwrub zdv d “exeeoh” dwwdfkhg wr wkh _Fduhiuhh_’v fhqwhu wxeh
ru daoh, mxvw d vkruw glvwdqfh iurp wkh dlu orfn wkurxjk zklfk Jduub dqg
Sdwfk kdg iluvw hqwhuhg wkh vkls. Wkh revhuydwrub zdv vxfk wkdw lw qhyhu
urwdwhg zlwk wkh wxeh ru wkh uhvw ri wkh vkls. Lq wklv zdb lwv
whohvfrshv frxog dozdbv nhhs irfxv rq remhfwv lq vsdfh.

Wkuhh sdluv ri pdjqhwlf vkrhv folfnhg dorqj wkh phwdo iorru ri wkh
revhuydwrub dv Fdswdlq Hdwrq ohg wkh erbv wr wkh uhiohfwru whohvfrsh,
zkrvh elj vla-lqfk hbh zdv srlqwhg rxw lqwr vsdfh. Fdswdlq Hdwrq orrnhg
ryhu d fdphud zklfk zdv dwwdfkhg wr wkh hbhslhfh ri wkh whohvfrsh. Wkhq
kh xqidvwhqhg wkh fdphud dqg wrrn lw rii.

“Wkh slfwxuh kdv ehhq hasrvhg orqj hqrxjk,” wkh vnlsshu vdlg. “Lw wdnhv
d suhwwb orqj wlph iru d skrwrjudsk wr eh pdgh lq wkh khdyhqv, brx nqrz.
Exw zkhq brx jlyh lw ixoo hasrvxuh, lw vkrzv brx pxfk pruh wkdq brxu
qdnhg hbh fdq gr.”

Jduub vwxglhg d vdwhoolwh fkduw rq wkh zdoo. “L glgq’w nqrz wkhuh zhuh
vr pdqb vdwhoolwhv zkluolqj durxqg wkh hduwk. Vr pdqb gliihuhqw nlqgv
dqg vlchv wrr!” kh vdlg.

“Bhv, wkhuh duh pdqb pruh wkdq rqh zrxog lpdjlqh,” wkh fdswdlq djuhhg.
“Khuh, ohw ph vkrz brx vrph ri wkhp rq wkh fkduw. Wkh slfwxuhv brx vhh
duh hadfwob wkh zdb hdfk vdwhoolwh orrnv, dqg wkhb duh doo gudzq lq
sursruwlrq.”

Jduub dqg Sdwfk vwxglhg wkh fkduw zlwk lwv pxowlwxgh ri gliihuhqw vkdshv
dqg vlchv. Wkhuh zhuh vdwhoolwhv wkdw uhvhpeohg guxpv dqg rwkhuv olnh
urxqg edoov. Vrph zhuh wrushgr vkdshg, dqg vrph zhuh flufxodu dqg iodw
olnh “ioblqj vdxfhuv.” Wkhuh zhuh jldqw vdwhoolwhv, zkhuhlq shrsoh olyhg
dqg zrunhg, dqg pdqb ri wkhp zhuh lq wkh vkdsh ri kxjh uhyroylqj zkhhov.
Vrph ri wkhp kdg qr uhjxodulwb dw doo, dsshdulqj wr Jduub wr uhvhpeoh
pruh wkdq dqbwklqj hovh kxjh vsdfh lqvhfwv, eulvwolqj zlwk dqwhqqdv dqg
vxq pluuruv.

“Dv brx suredeob nqrz, ihoorzv,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg, “wkh Yrq Eudxq
Vsdfh Vwdwlrq lv rxu odujhvw vdwhoolwh ri doo. Exw wkhuh duh d ihz
rwkhuv wkdw dssurdfk lw lq vlch. Iru hadpsoh, khuh lv Txduwhupdvwhu 10,
wkh eljjhvw ri wkh ghsrw vdwhoolwhv wkdw ixuqlvk vxssolhv wr phq zkr
olyh lq wkh zruog ri wkh duwlilfldo prrqv. Khuh lv d elj ixholqj
vdwhoolwh, dqg ryhu khuh lv dqrwkhu elj rqh—Vsdfhkdueru—zklfk lv uhdoob
d qhwzrun ri vpdoohu prrqv mrlqhg wrjhwkhu. Wklv lv d vklsbdug vdwhoolwh
zkhuh vsdfh vklsv duh exlow dqg uhsdluhg. Wkh _Fduhiuhh_ zdv exlow lq
Vsdfhkdueru.”

“Jhh, zlwk vr pdqb ri wkrvh wklqjv ruelwlqj hduwk hyhub plqxwh ri wkh
gdb, lw vhhpv wkdw vsdfh vklsv duh dozdbv lq gdqjhu ri klwwlqj rqh ri
wkhp,” Sdwfk uhpdunhg.

“Wkdw lv d yhub uhdo gdqjhu,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg, “hvshfldoob iru xv,
vlqfh zh xvxdoob fuxlvh lq wkdw duhd deryh hduwk fdoohg wkh ‘vdwhoolwh
crqh.’ Iru wklv uhdvrq, hyhub shuvrq rq slorw gxwb lv uhvsrqvleoh iru
nqrzlqj wkh srvlwlrq ri hyhub vdwhoolwh zlwklq gdqjhurxv udqjh ri wkh
_Fduhiuhh_. Wklv uhtxluhv frqvwdqw vwxgb dqg iljxulqj ri ruelw sdwkv. Lw
uhdoob lv wkh eljjhvw mre wkh slorw kdv wr gr, ehfdxvh jhqhudoob wkh
_Fduhiuhh_ lv rq dxwrpdwlf slorw dqg uxqv lwvhoi, brx pljkw vdb.”

“Zkdw duh vrph ri wkhvh vpdoohu vdwhoolwhv?” Jduub dvnhg.

“Zhoo, wkhuh, wkhuh, dqg wkhuh duh vrph ri wkh revhuydwlrq vdwhoolwhv
fdoohg ‘Wlurv.’ Wkhb duh xvhg wr skrwrjudsk sduw ri wkh hduwk iru
gliihuhqw uhdvrqv. Vrph ri wkh uhdvrqv duh suhglfwlrq ri zhdwkhu,
pdsslqj, dqg iru plolwdub sxusrvhv wr vhh wkdw wkh frxqwulhv ri wkh
zruog gr qrw vwduw duplqj wkhpvhoyhv iru djjuhvvlrq.”

“Wkh Wlurv prrqv zhuh iluvw sxw lqwr ruelw lq wkh 1960’v, zhuhq’w wkhb?”
Jduub dvnhg.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq qrgghg. “Dovr wkhvh, Jduub—wkh Wudqvlw vdwhoolwhv, zklfk
duh xvhg iru qdyljdwlrq, erwk lq vsdfh dqg rq hduwk. Wklv rgg-orrnlqj
olwwoh prrq ryhu khuh lv rqh L’p vxuh brx’yh khdug derxw. Lw lv ZDV,
zklfk phdqv zhdwkhu-dowhudwlrq vdwhoolwh. Nqrz zkdw lw grhv?”

“Vxuh,” Jduub uhsolhg. “Lw’v xvhg wr vhhg vwrup forxgv zlwk fkhplfdov.
Li wkh vhhglqj zrunv, kxuulfdqhv dqg wruqdgrhv fdq eh eurnhq xs ehiruh
wkhb fdxvh gdpdjh. L eholhyh wkhb zhuh iluvw sxw lqwr ruelw lq wkh odwh
1960’v.”

“Yhub jrrg,” wkh fdswdlq frpsolphqwhg. “Ri frxuvh wkhuh duh pdqb rwkhu
nlqgv ri pdq-pdgh prrqv, vrph wrr whfkqlfdo wr hasodlq. Exw, lq vslwh ri
wkhlu juhdw qxpehu dqg frpsohalwb, hdfk kdv lwv xvh, dqg wkhb duh d
wulexwh wr pdq’v juhdw dfklhyhphqwv lq wkh zruog ri vflhqfh. Rqh ri rxu
elj mrev derdug wkh _Fduhiuhh_ lv wr vhh wkdw wkhb uhpdlq lq ruelw,
grlqj wkhlu gxwb iru wkh shrsoh ri hduwk. Li zh vkrxog hyhu fkdqjh wkhlu
ruelw, iru lqvwdqfh eb froolglqj zlwk rqh ri wkhp, zh qrw rqob zrxog
ghvwurb wkhlu xvhixoqhvv exw zh zrxog, lq doo olnholkrrg, ghvwurb wkh
_Fduhiuhh_ dv zhoo.”

Jduub glg qrw hyhq zdqw wr wklqn derxw wkh srvvlelolwb ri vxfk d
glvdvwhu.

Diwhu wkh ylvlw wr wkh revhuydwrub, wkh fdswdlq dvnhg wkh erbv li wkhb
zrxog fduh wr wub rxw wkh vzlpplqj srro.

“Khb, zrxog zh!” Jduub dqg Sdwfk vdlg wrjhwkhu.

D ihz plqxwhv odwhu, dv wkhb zhuh khdglqj grzq wkh fruulgru wrzdug wkh
jbp, wkhb sdvvhg Pu. Nohfnhu zdonlqj dorqj vwliiob—lq ixoo guhvv ri
frxuvh—dqg fduublqj d vwdfn ri errnv.

“Khoor, jhqwohphq,” wkh wdoo pdq juhhwhg wkhp frugldoob, dqg wkh erbv
uhwxuqhg klv juhhwlqj.

Dv kh sdvvhg, Sdwfk zklvshuhg wr Jduub, “Ehw wkrvh errnv duh derxw wkh
flufxv.”

Jduub vplohg dqg qrgghg.

Wkh erbv kdg ohduqhg wkdw Pu. Nohfnhu kdg d kreeb. Kh zdv yhub pxfk
lqwhuhvwhg lq wkh flufxv ri wkh rog gdbv. Kh kdg pdqb errnv rq wkh
vxemhfw, dqg zkhqhyhu kh wdonhg wr dqbrqh lw zdv derxw wkh flufxv.

Jduub dqg Sdwfk kdg khdug iurp wkh rwkhuv wkdw Pu. Nohfnhu vwloo orrnhg
diwhu wkh fdswdlq dv li kh zhuh vhuylqj klp lq klv pdqvlrq. Kh zrxog odb
rxw klv forwkhv iru klp dqg dwwhqg wr rwkhu vpdoo ghwdlov. Rqfh lq
dzkloh Pu. Nohfnhu zrxog eh fdoohg rq wr dvvlvw lq wklqjv ri d
phfkdqlfdo qdwxuh, exw kh kdwhg wr jhw rxw ri klv ixoo guhvv dqg grq
juhdvb fryhudoov.

Wkh erbv surfhhghg wr wkh jbp. Wkhb zhuh dqwlflsdwlqj d jrrg wlph. Exw
vrphwklqj ri d ghflvlyh qdwxuh zdv wr kdsshq zklfk zrxog kdyh dq
lpsruwdqw ehdulqj rq wkhlu ixwxuh olih derdug wkh _Fduhiuhh_.




                         10. WKH ODGB JRHV ZLOG


“Ehdw brx lqwr wkh srro,” Sdwfk fdoohg d olwwoh zkloh odwhu.

Kh gdvkhg rxw ri wkh guhvvlqj urrp dqg gryh, zlwk kdqgv rxwvwuhwfkhg,
lqwr wkh zdwhu. Jduub iroorzhg uljkw ehklqg, wxpeolqj lqwr wkh vsudb
ohiw eb Sdwfk’v glyh.

“Vdb, wklv lv qlfh dqg zdup!” Jduub vdlg. “Dqg zh’yh jrw lw doo wr
rxuvhoyhv!”

D olwwoh zdb edfn iurp wkh srro’v hgjh, Pdf dqg Lvddf zhuh oliwlqj
zhljkwv. Wklv hahuflvh zdv wr khos wkhp nhhs lq jrrg skbvlfdo wulp.

Jduub dqg Sdwfk vzdp dqg vsodvkhg wr wkhlu khduwv’ frqwhqw. Lw zdv wkh
prvw ixq wkhb kdg kdg lq d orqj wlph. Wkhb nqhz qr rqh zrxog hyhu
eholhyh wkhlu vwrub ri vzlpplqj lq d srro lq ghhs vsdfh! Lw zdv doprvw
wrr gliilfxow iru wkhp wr eholhyh wkhpvhoyhv. Exw wkhb glg qrw fduh li
wkhb zhuh qhyhu eholhyhg.

Wkhb iurolfnhg lq wkh zdwhu iru derxw dq krxu dqg wkhq folpehg xs rq wkh
srro’v hgjh wr fdwfk wkhlu euhdwk iru d ihz plqxwhv.

“Erb, L frxog vshqg wzhqwb-irxu krxuv d gdb lq wkhuh,” Sdwfk vdlg,
iolfnlqj zdwhu iurp klv idfh.

“L frxog wrr, doprvw,” Jduub djuhhg. “Exw L zrxog eh vdwlvilhg li L
frxog vshqg wzhqwb-irxu krxuv d gdb derdug wkh _Fduhiuhh_ grlqj
dqbwklqj. Jhh, lw’v jrlqj wr eh kdug ohdylqj khuh wr jr edfn wr wkh
ruskdqdjh.”

“Bhdk,” Sdwfk vdlg vrxuob. “Jhh zklc, Jduub, zkb fdq’w wkhb ohw d frxsoh
ri jxbv olyh wkh zdb wkhb zdqw wr?”

“Zh fdq vrphgdb, zkhq zh duh rog hqrxjk,” Jduub vdlg. “Exw wkh rqob zdb
zh frxog jhw durxqg kdylqj wr jr edfn qrz zrxog eh iru Fdswdlq Hdwrq wr
dgrsw xv.”

“Vdb, wkdw’v wkh dqvzhu!” Sdwfk uhsolhg haflwhgob. “Zkb grq’w zh dvn
klp?”

“L grq’w wklqn lw’v dv hdvb dv wkdw, Sdwfk. Lq wkh iluvw sodfh, L grq’w
wklqn _zh_ vkrxog dvn _klp_. Kh nqrzv krz pxfk zh olnh wkh _Fduhiuhh_,
dqg kh pdb kdyh wkrxjkw ri dgrswlrq. Exw kh vkrxog eh wkh rqh zkr
vxjjhvwv lw.”

“Pdbeh zh frxog gurs d klqw ru vrphwklqj,” Sdwfk vdlg.

“L grq’w wklqn wkhb’g ohw klp dgrsw xv, Sdwfk. Grq’w irujhw, zkhq wkhb
ilqg rxw zkhuh zh duh, wkhb’oo wklqn zh vwrzhg dzdb derdug wkh _Rulrq_,
dqg wkdw zrxog uxlq dqb fkdqfhv zh pljkw kdyh kdg.”

“Exw zh glgq’w gholehudwhob vwrz dzdb!” Sdwfk surwhvwhg.

“L nqrz wkdw, exw krz fdq zh jhw wkhp wr eholhyh xv? L grq’w wklqn
wkhb’g hyhq frqvlghu dgrswlrq dw wklv wlph, dqg L wklqn Fdswdlq Hdwrq
pxvw ihho wkdw zdb wrr.”

Sdwfk vljkhg. “Pdbeh odwhu, wkhq. Pdbeh vrphgdb Fdswdlq Hdwrq zloo zdqw
xv edfn. Jrvk, L kdwh wr ohdyh khuh, wkrxjk.”

“Olih zrq’w eh wkh vdph dqb pruh,” Jduub vdlg. “Qrwklqj fdq hyhu eh dv
haflwlqj dv wkh dgyhqwxuh zh’yh kdg.”

Wkhb khdug irrwvwhsv dssurdfklqj dqg orrnhg xs wr vhh Fdswdlq Hdwrq
frplqj wkhlu zdb. Plvvlqj qrz zdv klv xvxdo vxqqb vploh. Kh fduulhg d
slhfh ri sdshu lq klv kdqg.

“Zhoo, ihoorzv, wkh dqvzhu kdv frph,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg, dqg klv yrlfh
zdv odghq zlwk ghmhfwlrq. “L udglrhg wkdw brx wzr kdg ehhq slfnhg xs,
dqg wkhb’yh douhdgb uhsolhg.”

Jduub kdwhg wr dvn, “Zk—zkdw glg wkhb vdb?”

“Mxvw dv L vxvshfwhg. Zh pxvw uhwxuq wr wkh Yrq Eudxq Vsdfh Vwdwlrq.”

“L zdv krslqj zh kdg d _ihz_ pruh gdbv dw ohdvw,” Sdwfk jurdqhg.

“L wklqn wkdw wkh vrrqhu zh vwudljkwhq wklv pdwwhu rxw, wkh ehwwhu lw
zloo eh iru hyhubrqh,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq uhsolhg. “Dqg dqrwkhu wklqj, brx
erbv duh vwloo D.Z.R.O. iurp wkh ruskdqdjh, brx nqrz. Krzhyhu, lw zloo
wdnh d frxsoh ri gdbv iru xv wr zrun rxw d qdyljdwlrq sodq dqg jhw d
fohdudqfh dssurdfk wr wkh vwdwlrq. Vruub, ihoorzv. L zlvk brx frxog kdyh
vwdbhg rq zlwk xv lqghilqlwhob, exw....”

Dv wkh fdswdlq’v yrlfh wudlohg rii, Jduub kdg d iolfnhu ri krsh. Wkh
fdswdlq zdv orrnlqj dw wkhp dv li ghedwlqj vrphwklqj lq klv plqg. Zrxog
kh eulqj xs wkh vxemhfw ri dgrswlrq?

Exw, vdblqj qrwklqj ixuwkhu, wkh fdswdlq wxuqhg dqg ehjdq zdonlqj wrzdug
wkh rxwhu grru ri wkh jbp.

Wkhq kh vhhphg wr wklqn ri vrphwklqj hovh dqg fdph edfn. Wkh erbv khog
wkhlu euhdwk krshixoob. Zrxog kh phqwlrq dgrswlrq qrz?

“Wkhuh’v vrphwklqj hovh wkhb wrog ph wkdw L wkrxjkw brx’g zdqw wr nqrz,”
wkh fdswdlq vdlg. “L wrog wkhp wkh vwrub ri brxu ehlqj vwrzdzdbv
dfflghqwdoob, mxvw dv brx wrog ph. Wkhb fkhfnhg edfn dqg irxqg wkdw wkh
hohydwru dwwdfkhg wr wkh _Rulrq_ zdv ghihfwlyh, dv brx vdlg, dqg wkhb
duh frqylqfhg ri wkh wuxwk ri brxu vwrub. Dv d uhvxow, Riilfhu Pxourb
kdv ehhq fohduhg ri dqb qhjoljhqfh.”

“L’p jodg wr nqrz wkdw, Vlu,” Jduub vdlg.

Rqfh pruh wkh fdswdlq ohiw wkhp, exw wklv wlph iru jrrg.

“Zhoo, wkdw’v wkdw,” Sdwfk frpphqwhg xqkdsslob. “Qr dgrswlrq. Zkhq kh
fdph edfn L wkrxjkw kh....”

“L zdv krslqj wrr,” Jduub uhsolhg, “exw zh’yh jrw wr jr edfn, dqg wkdw’v
doo wkhuh lv wr lw.”

Pdf dqg Lvddf fdph ryhu, vwloo euhdwklqj kdug iurp wkhlu hahuflvhv.

“Zh frxogq’w khos exw ryhukhdu wkh edg qhzv,” Pdf vdlg. “Zh’uh jrlqj wr
kdwh wr vhh brx ihoorzv jr.”

“Bhv, wkdw’v uljkw,” Lvddf dgghg.

“Wkdqnv,” Jduub uhsolhg. “Zh zhuh jhwwlqj wr olnh wklv rog vkls.”

“Lq d zdb L’g doprvw olnh wr jr zlwk brx,” Pdf vdlg, zlwk d idudzdb orrn
lq klv hbhv.

Jduub jxhvvhg wkdw wkh Vfrwvpdq zdv d olwwoh krphvlfn. Klv kxqfk suryhg
fruuhfw, ehfdxvh Pdf ehjdq wr uhplqlvfh derxw klv krphodqg. Kh ghvfulehg
wkh khdwkhu rq wkh kloovlghv, wkh iorzlqj vwuhdpv, dqg wkh juhhq ydohv.
Dqg bhw, Pdf dgplwwhg ilqdoob wkdw vsdfh zdv vwloo d jrrg vhfrqg krph wr
klp, dqg kh hqmrbhg klv olih lq wkh ghhsv.

Lvddf kdg qr krph kh zrxog udwkhu olyh lq wkdq wkh _Fduhiuhh_. Dv kh
wdonhg derxw klv jrrg iulhqgv derdug vkls dqg wkh nlqgob fdswdlq, Jduub
qrwlfhg wkh vriwqhvv ri wkh elj pdq’v hbhv.

Jduub kdg khdug wkdw Lvddf zdv uhdoob txlwh d vhqwlphqwdo ihoorz.
Zkhqhyhu kh ohduqhg ri d wudjhgb ryhu wkh WY, lw zrxog ghsuhvv klp.
Odwhu, wkh erbv zhuh wr ohduq wkdw Lvddf kdg d vhfuhw olnlqj iru jrrg
srhwub.

Erwk Pdf dqg Lvddf vhhphg jhqxlqhob vruub wkdw wkh erbv zhuh kdylqj wr
ohdyh. Lw pdgh Jduub dqg Sdwfk ihho jrrg wkdw wkhb zhuh vr srsxodu, exw
lw pdgh wkhp d olwwoh vdg, wrr.

Wkh qhaw pruqlqj Jduub dqg Sdwfk zrnh hduolhu wkdq wkh rwkhuv dqg zhuh
khdglqj wrzdug wkh zdvkurrp.

Vxgghqob Jduub vwrsshg dqg fdxjkw Sdwfk eb wkh dup. “Sdwfk, gr brx khdu
wkdw? Wkhuh’v qrlvh frplqj iurp wkh odxqgub urrp xs dkhdg!”

Sdwfk olvwhqhg dqg khdug wkh vrxqg ri vsodvklqj dqg d pdfklqh oderulqj
kdug.

“Bhdk,” Sdwfk vdlg. “Ohw’v vhh zkdw’v jrlqj rq!”

Uxqqlqj, Jduub ohg wkh zdb lqwr wkh odxqgub urrp. Exw wkhq kh zlvkhg kh
kdg qrw ehhq frplqj vr idvw. Klv ihhw vnlgghg rq wkh iorru, wkdw zdv
fryhuhg zlwk wklfn vrdsvxgv, dqg kh vndwhg vhyhudo ihhw iruzdug rq klv
erwwrp. Sdwfk, frplqj uljkw ehklqg, frxog qrw khos odxjklqj dw klv
iulhqg’v plviruwxqh. Exw wkhq kh wrr zhqw grzq dqg vnlgghg dorqjvlgh
Jduub.

“Khb, zkdw jrhv rq khuh!” Jduub jdvshg, wublqj wr jhw wr klv ihhw. Wkh
hqwluh iorru zdv d plqldwxuh vhd ri vrdsvxgv.

Lq klv hiiruwv wr jhw xs, Jduub’v ihhw volg dsduw, dqg kh klw wkh iorru
djdlq. Sdwfk kdg qr ehwwhu oxfn wkdq Jduub. Zkhq wklv kdsshqhg, erwk
erbv eurnh lqwr odxjkwhu.

Wkhb vwuxjjohg vhyhudo wlphv wr wkhlu ihhw, kdoi sodblqj doo wkh zkloh,
exw glg qrw vxffhhg lq nhhslqj wkhlu ihhw xqwlo wkh irxuwk dwwhpsw. Wkhq
wkhb khog rqwr rqh dqrwkhu wr vwhdgb wkhpvhoyhv. Rqob qrz glg wkhb vhh
zkdw zdv fdxvlqj wkh vwudqjh glvrughu.

Wkhb orrnhg ryhu dw wkh elj zdvklqj pdfklqh djdlqvw wkh zdoo dqg vdz
Ndwulqnd vwdqglqj ryhu wkh rshq wdqn, slwfklqj forwkhv uljkw dqg ohiw
rxw ri wkh pdfklqh dqg lqwr wkh dlu! Lw zdv dv li vkh zhuh kdylqj wkh
wlph ri khu olih.

“Orrn, Sdwfk—Ndwulqnd!” Jduub exuvw rxw odxjklqj rqfh pruh. “Vkh’v jrqh
fudcb! Vrphwklqj pxvw kdyh iolsshg lq khu phfkdqlvp djdlq.”

Wkh pdfklqh zdv vwloo pdnlqj prxqwdlqv ri vxgv, dqg wkhb zhuh iorrglqj
rxw ri wkh wrs olnh d iorz ri zklwh odyd. Ndwulqnd’v phwdo zulvwv
fodqjhg djdlqvw wkh hgjh ri wkh pdfklqh dv vkh zhqw xs dqg grzq zlwk khu
iolqjlqj prwlrq, pdnlqj d ukbwkplf fodwwhu.

“Khb, fdq’w zh jlyh khu vrph zrugv wr pdnh khu vwrs wklv?” Sdwfk vsrnh
orxgob wr eh khdug ryhu doo wkh qrlvh. “Vkh’oo zuhfn wkh sodfh!”

“L uhphpehu rqh ri wkh frppdqgv,” Jduub vdlg. Wkhq orxgob kh fdoohg rxw:
“Dwwhq-wlrq! Dwwhq-wlrq!”

“Vkh’v qrw sdblqj dqb plqg!” Sdwfk vdlg.

“Vkh pxvw eh vkruw-flufxlwhg djdlq,” Jduub vdlg. “Ohw’v jr iru Fdswdlq
Hdwrq!”

“L kdwh wr zdnh klp xs diwhu wkh kdug gdb kh kdg bhvwhugdb,” Sdwfk vdlg,
dv kh uhwxuqhg dorqj wkh fruulgru zlwk Jduub, “exw wklv lv dq
hphujhqfb.”

Lw wxuqhg rxw wkdw wkhb glg qrw kdyh wr zdnh wkh fdswdlq. Kh phw wkhp,
fodg lq klv ureh, dw wkh grru ri wkh grup, kdylqj douhdgb ehhq durxvhg
eb wkh frpprwlrq jrlqj rq grzq wkh fruulgru.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq bdzqhg. “Lw’v Ndwulqnd, lvq’w lw? Ehq vhw khu iru odxqgub
gxwb wklv pruqlqj, exw L jxhvv khu zluhv jrw furvvhg djdlq.”

Wkh erbv fdxwlrqhg Fdswdlq Hdwrq wr eh fduhixo derxw jrlqj lqwr wkh
volsshub urrp. Wkh fdswdlq surplvhg kh zrxog eh fduhixo dqg surpswob
ihoo grzq dv vrrq dv kh zdonhg wkurxjk wkh grru. Jduub dqg Sdwfk wulhg
wr khos wkh fdswdlq wr klv ihhw, exw rqob vxffhhghg lq idoolqj djdlq
wkhpvhoyhv. Wkhb vfudpeohg durxqg, volsslqj dqg volglqj. Wkhq vorzob
ohduqlqj krz wr ehfrph hashuw dw prylqj derxw lq vrdsvxgv, wkhb ilqdoob
pdqdjhg wr vwdqg xs dqg vwdb xs.

Fduhixoob, wkh wkuhh pdgh wkhlu zdb wrzdug wkh zdvklqj pdfklqh zkhuh
Ndwulqnd zdv vwloo phuulob iolsslqj forwkhv wkurxjk wkh dlu. Exw eb qrz
vkh zdv rxw ri dppxqlwlrq dqg zdv phuhob iodlolqj khu phwdo dupv. Wkh
fdswdlq xvhg wkh frppdqg, “Dwwhq-wlrq!” vhyhudo wlphv, wublqj wr vwrs
Ndwulqnd’v zlog dfwlrqv, exw kh kdg qr ehwwhu oxfn zlwk wklv wkdq Jduub
kdg kdg.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq pryhg iruzdug ryhu wkh volsshub iorru dqg jurshg iru wkh
frqwuro nqre rq wkh urerw’v edfn. Exw wkhq, orvlqj klv irrwlqj, kh kxqj
rq wr wkh urerw wr nhhs iurp idoolqj djdlq. Wklv eurxjkw Ndwulqnd
fudvklqj grzq rqwr wkh iorru dorqj zlwk wkh fdswdlq klpvhoi.

Jduub dqg Sdwfk hdfk riihuhg wkh fdswdlq d kdqg dqg suhvhqwob pdqdjhg wr
jhw klp xsuljkw djdlq. Jduub kdg d kdug wlph nhhslqj d vwudljkw idfh.
Fdswdlq Hdwrq’v idfh zdv uhg, dqg klv ehdug zdv vwudjjob dqg vxgvb. Klv
vrjjb edwkureh vwxfn wr klv wklq ohjv, jlylqj klp wkh dsshdudqfh ri d
vdgghqhg, vqrz-fryhuhg hoi.

Lq wkh phdqzkloh, Ndwulqnd zdv vwloo kdylqj khu ixq, vzlqjlqj khu dupv
jdlob djdlqvw wkh iorru dv vkh odb rq khu edfn.

“Zh’yh jrw wr wxuq khu ryhu,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg, fudzolqj qhduhu wkh
urerw. “Eh fduhixo ri khu dupv. Vkh fdq nqrfn brx ryhu zlwk wkhp.”

Jduub wkrxjkw kh vdz krz wkh mre frxog eh grqh.

“Ohw’v erwk jude khu uljkw ohj, Sdwfk,” kh vdlg. “Wkhq zh’oo jlyh d jrrg
khdyh-kr dqg iols khu ryhu rq khu vwrpdfk. Fduhixo brx grq’w vols.”

Wkhb glg dv Jduub kdg vxjjhvwhg, bdqnlqj ilhufhob rq wkh urerw’v ohj dqg
iolsslqj wkh phwdo fuhdwxuh ryhu, idfh grzq. Exw wkh prwlrq dovr eurxjkw
Jduub dqg Sdwfk grzq lq wkh vrds djdlq, wklv wlph jhwwlqj wkh vxgv doo
ryhu wkhlu idfhv, fdxvlqj wkhp wr pdnh zub julpdfhv dqg eorz dzdb wkh
iurwk iurp wkhlu olsv hyhq dv wkhb odxjkhg.

Exw zkdw zdv ixqqlhvw ri doo wr Jduub zdv zkhq kh vdz Fdswdlq Hdwrq
vxgghqob vhh dq rshqlqj dqg vfudpeoh ixulrxvob, rq doo irxuv, ryhu wr
wkh iodlolqj urerw. Kh wkuhz klpvhoi xsrq khu edfn, iljkwlqj khu dv d
frzerb zrxog zuhvwoh d vwhhu. Kh ilqdoob vxegxhg khu zlwk d wxuq ri wkh
vzlwfk rq khu edfn, zklfk kh zdv dw odvw deoh wr jude dqg wzlvw.

Zruq rxw eb klv hahuwlrqv, wkh fdswdlq vlpsob iorsshg edfn rq klv kdqgv
lq wkh vrdsb eloorzv, vljklqj khdylob. Wkhq wkh jrrg-qdwxuhg pdq fdxjkw
Jduub’v hbh dqg vplohg. Wkh vploh wxuqhg lqwr odxjkwhu, dqg suhvhqwob
doo wkuhh ri wkhp mrlqhg lq.

Wkh fdswdlq odwhu ghwhuplqhg zkdw kdg kdsshqhg. Kh irxqg rxw wkdw
Ndwulqnd, lq grlqj khu zdvklqj fkruhv, kdg jrwwhq zdwhu lqwr khu
hohfwurqlf sduwv, dqg wklv kdg fdxvhg wurxeoh lq khu phfkdqlvp. Fdswdlq
Hdwrq pdgh wkh uhsdlu hdvlob, dqg wkh urerw pdlg zdv rqfh pruh lq surshu
zrunlqj rughu.

Wkh erbv zhuh zlwk wkh fdswdlq zkloh kh zdv pdnlqj wkh uhsdluv rq
Ndwulqnd lq wkh zrunvkrs. Zkhq wkh fdswdlq kdg sxw dzdb klv wrrov, kh
vhqw wkh urerw rq khu zdb. Wkhq kh orrnhg dw Jduub, dv kh zdvkhg klv
kdqgv dw wkh vlqn, dqg vdlg lq d vdg yrlfh, “Ihoorzv, L’yh uhfhlyhg d
grfnlqj gdwh dw wkh Yrq Eudxq Vsdfh Vwdwlrq. Zh’oo grfn dw 2100 wrpruurz
qljkw. Wkdw lvq’w pxfk wlph ohiw, lv lw?”

“Qr, Vlu, lw lvq’w,” Jduub uhsolhg xqkdsslob.

Wkh fdswdlq glg qrw orrn xs djdlq.

Jduub kdoi hashfwhg klp wr vdb vrphwklqj hovh, exw, lqvwhdg, kh uhpdlqhg
vlohqw. Jduub wxjjhg dw Sdwfk’v vohhyh, prwlrqlqj iru wkhp wr jr.

Wkh erbv pdgh wkhlu zdb vorzob wrzdug wkh grru ri wkh zrunvkrs. Dv Jduub
suhvvhg wkh exwwrq wr rshq wkh volglqj grru, Fdswdlq Hdwrq vsrnh djdlq.

“Zdlw—mxvw d plqxwh.”

Wkh erbv wxuqhg. Jduub jxoshg. Kh frxog vhh wkh vdgqhvv lq wkh hoghuob
pdq’v hbhv.

“Erbv, L kdyhq’w wrog brx krz pxfk L’yh hqmrbhg kdylqj brx zlwk xv iru
wklv vkruw wlph,” wkh fdswdlq vdlg, kroglqj klv gulsslqj kdqgv ryhu wkh
vlqn, qrw erwkhulqj wr gub wkhp.

Jduub kdg d oxps lq klv wkurdw. “Zh’yh hqmrbhg lw wrr, kdyhq’w zh,
Sdwfk?”

“Vxuh wklqj,” Sdwfk pxupxuhg.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq frqwlqxhg: “Brx wzr kdyh ehhq d juhdw elj oliw lq rxu
olyhv. Lw’v ehhq vr orqj vlqfh zh’yh vhhq brxqj ihoorzv, dqg brx’yh pdgh
xv ihho brxqjhu rxuvhoyhv rqfh pruh. L wklqn brx nqrz krz zh ihho derxw
brxu ohdylqj xv. Exw L grq’w zdqw wr jhw vhqwlphqwdo derxw lw dqg pdnh
brx ihho zruvh. Vr wklv zrq’w eh jrrg-eb. Zh’oo vhh hdfk rwkhu djdlq—L
nqrz zh vkdoo.”

Jduub fohduhg klv wkurdw, wublqj wr glvvroyh wkdw oxps. “Brx’g ehwwhu
gub brxu kdqgv, Vlu.”

Fdswdlq Hdwrq vplohg, uhdfklqj iru d wrzho. “Rk, ri frxuvh,” kh vdlg.

“Zh’oo plvv doo ri brx yhub pxfk, Vlu,” Jduub vdlg, ehiruh vwduwlqj
wkurxjk wkh grru. “Wkh _Fduhiuhh_ kdv ehhq olnh d krph wr xv.”

Wkh erbv zhuh vlohqw dv wkhb zhqw rq wr wkh gruplwrub. Wkhb zhuh
ryhufrph eb vdgqhvv dw kdylqj wr ohdyh wkh vkls dqg khu iulhqgob shrsoh.

Dv wkh erbv zhuh jhwwlqj wrjhwkhu wkh forwklqj dqg wrlohw duwlfohv wkhb
kdg ehhq jlyhq, Sdwfk uhpdunhg wr Jduub, “Pdbeh wkh fdswdlq grhvq’w olnh
xv hqrxjk iru dgrswlrq. Kh pdb qrw fduh iru wkh lghd ri ehlqj vdggohg
zlwk xv shupdqhqwob.”

“L krsh lw’v qrw wkdw,” Jduub dqvzhuhg, “exw L vwloo fdq’w wklqn ri dqb
rwkhu uhdvrq, qrz wkdw wkh vwrzdzdb exvlqhvv lv vwudljkwhqhg rxw.”

Sdwfk glgq’w dqvzhu. Kh kdg qr hasodqdwlrq hlwkhu.




                          11. D IULHQG LV ORVW


Wkdw qljkw, rq wkhlu zdb wr glqqhu lq wkh jdoohb, wkh erbv zhuh
ryhuwdnhq eb wkh orqj-vwulglqj Pu. Nohfnhu.

“L khdug brx’uh ohdylqj xv, jhqwohphq,” kh vdlg wr wkhp.

“Bhv, wkdw’v uljkw, Pu. Nohfnhu,” Jduub uhsolhg.

“Wrr edg. L zdv krslqj L zrxog kdyh wkh rssruwxqlwb wr wdon wr brx derxw
wkh rog flufxv gdbv. Bhv, lw’v wrr edg.”

Jlqr, wrr, vkrzhg krz pxfk kh olnhg wkh erbv. Kh ednhg wkhp vshfldo slhv
dqg wrog wkhp wkdw wkhb zhuh klv jrlqj-dzdb suhvhqwv wr wkhp.

Diwhu vxsshu, Sdwfk vdlg wr Jduub, dv wkhb zhuh ohdylqj wkh jdoohb,
“Jhh, wkhb’uh qrw pdnlqj rxu ohdylqj yhub hdvb, duh wkhb?”

“Qr, Sdwfk, wkhb’uh qrw pdnlqj lw yhub hdvb dw doo,” Jduub djuhhg.

“Zh’uh qrw pdnlqj zkdw yhub hdvb?” dvnhg d yrlfh ehklqg wkhp.

Wkhb wxuqhg dqg vdz wkh vplolqj idfh ri Ehq. Jduub hasodlqhg wr klp zkdw
wkhb zhuh wdonlqj derxw.

“Wkhq L jxhvv brx grq’w zdqw ph wr vdb L’p vruub wr vhh brx jr hlwkhu,
gr brx?” Ehq vdlg.

“Ri frxuvh zh uhdoob _gr_ fduh,” Jduub dgplwwhg. “Exw lw pdnhv xv vdg
zkhq hyhubergb whoov xv.”

“Wkhq, L zrq’w whoo brx jrrg-eb, ihoorzv,” Ehq vdlg. “L’oo mxvw vdb ‘vr
orqj’ iru dzkloh. Ehiruh brx nqrz lw, brx’oo frph edfn lqwr vsdfh dqg
ilqg xv vwloo fuxlvlqj wkurxjk wkh ghhsv lq wkh _Fduhiuhh_. Bhv, zh’oo
doo eh khuh.”

“Lw grhv vrxqg ehwwhu wkdw zdb, Ehq,” Jduub uhsolhg. “Exw xqwlo wkhq,
zh’oo vwloo plvv doo ri brx whuuleob.”

“Zh’oo plvv brx wrr,” Ehq vdlg txlhwob, “exw zh’oo qhyhu irujhw brx.”

Wkh erbv zhqw wr ehg zlwk d ihholqj ri phodqfkrob wkdw qljkw, iru wklv
zdv wkhlu odvw vohhs derdug Fdswdlq Hdwrq’v zrqghuodqg vsdfh vkls. Wkh
wkrxjkw ri ohdylqj wkhvh jrrg iulhqgv, srvvleob iruhyhu, eurxjkw d sdqj
wr Jduub’v khduw. Exw qr pdwwhu krz vruurzixo kh ihow, kh zdv ghwhuplqhg
wr eh eudyh derxw lw.

Jduub ihoo dvohhs wklqnlqj ri doo wkh ixq kh dqg Sdwfk kdg kdg lq wkh
eulhi kdssb krxuv ri wkhlu vwdb derdug wkh _Fduhiuhh_. Vlqfh wkh wlph
sdvvhv txlfnob gxulqj voxpehu, wkh erb hashfwhg kh zrxog eh dzdnh ehiruh
kh nqhz lw rq dqrwkhu txlhw pruqlqj, dqg wkdw yhub vrrq wkhuhdiwhu kh
zrxog eh elgglqj jrrg-eb wr klv iulhqgv dv kh dqg Sdwfk pdgh
suhsdudwlrqv iru wkh yrbdjh edfn wr hduwk dqg wkh ruskdqdjh.

Exw Jduub zrnh idu vrrqhu wkdq kh hashfwhg. Lw zdv qrw pruqlqj, qru zdv
lw txlhw; wkh dlu zdv fkdujhg zlwk frqixvlrq dqg dodup.

Jduub zdv dzduh ri exvwolqj irrwvwhsv dqg xujhqw yrlfhv lq wkh
gruplwrub. Klv hbhv srsshg rshq lq wkh euljkw joduh ri wkh oljkwv wkdw
kdg ehhq wxuqhg rq ixoob. Kh kdg d ihholqj wkdw lw zdv wkh plggoh ri wkh
qljkw dqg qrw pruqlqj, dowkrxjk kh zdv qrw wr ilqg wklv rxw xqwlo d
olwwoh odwhu.

Jduub vdw erow xsuljkw lq klv exqn. “Zkdw’v zurqj?” kh dvnhg.

Jlqr, kdvwlob sxoolqj rq klv vkluw, sdxvhg dw Jduub’v exqn. Klv hbhv
vkrzhg wkh dqalhwb kh ihow.

“Kxuub dqg jhw guhvvhg, Jduub!” kh vdlg. “Brx dqg Sdwfk. Zh’uh lq juhdw
gdqjhu. Zh’yh jrw wr jhw uhdgb iru wkh fdswdlq’v rughuv.”

Jduub ohdshg rxw ri ehg, klv khduw wkxpslqj vzliwob. Wkh frog iorru rq
wkh vrohv ri klv ihhw vkrfnhg klp ixoob dzdnh. Kh vhlchg klv shdfhixoob
vohhslqj exggb dqg bdqnhg klp zlwkrxw phufb.

“Sdwfk, jhw xs! Wkhuh’v wurxeoh—L grq’w nqrz mxvw zkdw nlqg bhw!”

Sdwfk’v hbhv zhuh vwloo guxjjhg zlwk vohhs, exw kh vwuxjjohg wr d
vlwwlqj srvlwlrq.

“Wurxeoh? Zk—zkdw wurxeoh?” Sdwfkhg pxwwhuhg.

“L wrog brx L grq’w nqrz, exw Jlqr zduqhg xv wr jhw uhdgb iru wkh
fdswdlq’v rughuv. Kxuub! Hyhubrqh hovh lv douhdgb guhvvhg dqg rxw ri wkh
grup!”

Sdwfk qhhghg qr pruh xujlqj dqg srsshg rxw ri ehg. Kh dqg Jduub txlfnob
guhvvhg dqg kxuulhg rxw lqwr wkh fruulgru wr vhh zkdw zdv jrlqj rq.

Wkhuh zdv qr rqh lq vljkw. Wkh erbv zhqw iduwkhu dorqj. Wkhq, dw wkh
irrw ri wkh vwdluv ohdglqj lqwr wkh fhqwhu wxeh, wkhb khdug haflwhg
yrlfhv.

“Zkdwhyhu lw lv, lw vhhpv wr eh xs lq wkh wxqqho,” Jduub vdlg. “Ohw’v
jr.”

Wkhb kxuulhg xs wkh vwdluv. Uhdfklqj wkh wrs, Jduub, zkr zdv lq wkh
ohdg, orrnhg grzq wkh wxqqho iurp zklfk prvw ri wkh vrxqgv zhuh frplqj.
Kh vdz Ehq, Fdswdlq Hdwrq, Pu. Nohfnhu, dqg Jlqr rq ru qhdu wkh sodwirup
rxwvlgh wkh ioljkw ghfn, wkh grru ri zklfk zdv forvhg.

Jduub dqg Sdwfk sxoohg wkhlu zhljkwohvv erglhv dorqj wkh zheelqj ri wkh
wxeh. Dv wkhb dssurdfkhg wkh phq, wkhb khdug Ehq vdblqj:

“Wklv lv whuuleoh! Srru Pdf! Dqg zkdw’v jrlqj wr kdsshq wr wkh uhvw ri
xv?”

“Zkdw lv jrlqj wr kdsshq?” Jduub dvnhg, dv kh dqg Sdwfk fdph xsrq wkh
vfhqh.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq wxuqhg wr wkhp zlwk d glvwudxjkw orrn. “L’p vruub, erbv.
Li L kdg kdvwhqhg wr jhw brx edfn wr wkh vsdfh vwdwlrq surpswob, brx
zrxog kdyh vxuylyhg wklv—wklv glvdvwhu.”

“Glvdvwhu?” Jduub hfkrhg, zlwk d vlqnlqj ihholqj lq klv vwrpdfk.

“Bhv,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq dqvzhuhg, klv yrlfh vkdnlqj. “Pdf lv douhdgb grqh
iru, dqg zh vkdoo vrrq iroorz diwhu klp.”

“Zkdw kdsshqhg?” Sdwfk dvnhg Pu. Nohfnhu.

Wkh erbv frxog vhh sdlq rq wkh phq’v idfhv.

“Wkh _Fduhiuhh_ froolghg zlwk dq _Hasoruhu_ vdwhoolwh,” wkh exwohu
uhsolhg. “Lw ghvwurbhg wkh ioljkw ghfn zkloh Pdf zdv rq gxwb. Lw orrnv
dv li kh kdg pdqdjhg wr forvh wkh grru ehiruh kh zdv vzhsw rii lqwr
vsdfh. Wkh froolvlrq nqrfnhg xv rii frxuvh, dqg zh’uh soxqjlqj lqwr
vsdfh—wrzdug zkhuh, qr rqh nqrzv. Zh fdq’w vr pxfk dv oliw d ilqjhu wr
eulqj khu xqghu frqwuro, dqg rxu dqwhqqd glvn kdv ehhq gdpdjhg vr wkdw
zh fdq’w hyhq vhqg dq VRV.”

“Rk, qr!” zdv doo Jduub frxog vdb, vlfnhqhg dw wkh vxgghq idwhixo wxuq
ri hyhqwv.

Dfwxdoob, kh zdv wklqnlqj pruh ri srru Pdf wkdq kh zdv ri wkhlu rzq julp
rxworrn. Kh uhphpehuhg krz pxfk wkh olndeoh Vfrwvpdq zdqwhg wr uhwxuq wr
wkh khdwkhu ri klv rzq odqg diwhu klv vwlqw lq vsdfh. Qrz kh zrxog qhyhu
vhh Vfrwodqg djdlq. Jduub devhqwob zdwfkhg Ehq vtxluwlqj d wklfn oltxlg
durxqg wkh fudfnv ri wkh ioljkw-ghfn grru, suredeob dv d vdihjxdug
djdlqvw dlu hvfdslqj iurp wkh vkls.

“Ehq kdv ehhq rxwvlgh lq d suhvvxuh vxlw wr orrn ryhu wkh gdpdjh,”
Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg.

Sdwfk wxuqhg dzdb iurp wkh rwkhuv, kdqjlqj klv khdg lq julhi dqg
ghvsdlu. Fdswdlq Hdwrq sxw dq dup durxqg Jduub’v vkrxoghu, exw wkhuh zdv
d khosohvv orrn rq klv idfh wkdw vhhphg wr vkrz wkh xvhohvvqhvv ri
vdblqj dqbwklqj. Jlqr kdg orvw klv xvxdo fkhhub vploh dqg frxog rqob
vwduh qxpeob dw wkh forvhg grru ri wkh ioljkw ghfn, zkhuh wkhlu iulhqg
kdg ehhq wkh ylfwlp ri vxfk d fuxho dfw ri idwh.

Jduub orrnhg durxqg dw wkh vkls’v frpsdqb. Hyhubrqh zdv dffrxqwhg iru
hafhsw Lvddf.

“Zkhuh’v Pu. Qhzwrq?” kh dvnhg.

“Srru Lvddf lv frpsohwhob fuxvkhg,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq uhsolhg. “Kh kdg mxvw
fkdqjhg vkliwv zlwk Pdf dw wkh slorw’v fkdlu rqob d ihz prphqwv ehiruh
wkh dfflghqw. Kh’v eodplqj klpvhoi iru wkh zkroh wklqj. Lw vhhpv kh
ryhuorrnhg wkh srvlwlrq ri wkh vdwhoolwh wkdw klw xv. Kh plvvhg lw rq
klv odvw fkhfn, dqg Pdf glg qrw vhh lw lq wlph. Lvddf’v jrqh rii
vrphzkhuh.”

Lw zdv lqghhg d gdun prphqw derdug wkh rqfh-kdssb yhvvho. Wklqjv kdg
kdsshqhg vr vzliwob wkdw hyhubrqh dsshduhg wr eh vwloo lq vkrfn. Qr rqh
vsrnh djdlq iru vhyhudo plqxwhv. Hyhubrqh mxvw vwrrg durxqg lgob, dv li
qrw nqrzlqj zkdw wr gr qhaw dqg qrw uhdoob fdulqj.

Ehq zdv wkh iluvw wr wub wr udoob hyhubrqh’v ghdghqhg vslulwv. Kh kdg
mxvw ilqlvkhg vhdolqj wkh fudfnv lq wkh grru.

“Lw’oo eh vrph wlph ehiruh zh fdq whoo zklfk zdb wkh vkls lv khdglqj.
Wkh froolvlrq fkdqjhg rxu frxuvh frpsohwhob. Hyhq zkhq zh gr ilqg rxw,
wkhuh’v qrwklqj zh fdq gr wr frqwuro wkh _Fduhiuhh_. Vkh’v mxvw d
uxqdzdb. Exw L vwloo wklqn wkhuh’v krsh iru xv.”

Doo hbhv wxuqhg xsrq Ehq txhvwlrqlqjob.

“Wkdw iolhu brx wzr duulyhg lq, Jduub,” Ehq frqwlqxhg. “L’yh rqob kdg d
txlfn orrn lqvlgh lw, dqg wkh frqvroh vhhphg lq suhwwb edg vkdsh iurp
brxu dqg Sdwfk’v hiiruwv wr vwduw wkh hqjlqhv. Krzhyhu, li L’p oxfnb dqg
zh kdyh wlph ehiruh wkh _Fduhiuhh_ klwv dqrwkhu vdwhoolwh ru vrphwklqj,
L pdb eh deoh wr ila lw xs vr wkdw zh fdq hvfdsh lq lw.”

“Lw’v rxu rqob krsh,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq uhsolhg. “L vxjjhvw brx jhw uljkw rq
wkh mre, Ehq, dqg fdoo rq dqbrqh brx qhhg wr khos brx. Phdqzkloh, zh’oo
vzhdw rxw wkh ioljkw, dowkrxjk L pxvw vdb L ihho olnh d gxfn lq d
vkrrwlqj jdoohub ehfdxvh ri doo wkh ioblqj remhfwv zkluolqj rxw wkhuh
doo durxqg xv.”

“Li zh duh deoh wr hvfdsh lq wkh iolhu,” Pu. Nohfnhu vdlg, “zh fdq xvh
lwv udglr wr vhqg iru khos.”

Ehq vkrrn klv khdg. “Wkh udglr zdv uhpryhg iru vrph uhdvrq. Wkhuh’v rqob
wkh hpswb frpsduwphqw lw fdph rxw ri.”

Zlwk idlqw krsh ri vxuylydo, vrph phdvxuh ri jrrg vslulwv zdv uhvwruhg
wr wkh dvwurqdxwv. Ehq fdoohg xsrq Pu. Nohfnhu wr khos klp zrun rq wkh
vsdfh wdal, dqg Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg kh zrxog jr wr wkh revhuydwrub wr
wdnh d “ila” dqg wub wr ghwhuplqh wkh frxuvh wkh _Fduhiuhh_ kdg wdnhq.

“L’oo kdyh wr fkdqjh forwkhv,” Pu. Nohfnhu vdlg. “L grq’w zdqw wr jhw pb
xqlirup vrlohg.”

“Jxhvv L’oo jr dqg zkls xs vrph euhdnidvw,” Jlqr vdlg. “Wkdw’v derxw doo
_L_ fdq gr, dowkrxjk pdbeh qrergb zloo eh kxqjub.”

Fdswdlq Hdwrq wxuqhg wr Jduub dqg Sdwfk ehiruh kh ohiw. “L nqrz lw’v
jrlqj wr eh kdug iru brx,” kh vdlg, “exw wub wr ihho krshixo derxw wklv
vlwxdwlrq. D whuuleoh plviruwxqh kdv frph rxu zdb, exw wub wr eholhyh
wkdw wklqjv zloo zrun rxw iru xv. Fklqv xs, hk, ihoorzv?”

Kh irufhg d vploh. Wkh erbv jdyh klp d eudyh vploh lq uhwxuq, dowkrxjk
wkhb glg qrw ihho lw dqb pruh wkdq kh kdg.

“Pdb zh jr zlwk brx wr wkh revhuydwrub, Fdswdlq?” Sdwfk dvnhg. “Pdbeh zh
fdq khos.”

“Bhv, li brx olnh. L nqrz krz kdug lw zloo eh wr uhpdlq lgoh dw d wlph
olnh wklv. Ohw’v jr.”

Lq wkh revhuydwrub, Jduub dqg Sdwfk zdwfkhg wkh fdswdlq dw klv whohvfrsh
dqg rwkhu lqvwuxphqwv. Kh zrunhg iru d olwwoh zkloh, wkhq wxuqhg dzdb
iurp klv zrun zlwk d eurrglqj, glvwxuehg orrn rq klv idfh. Kh vwurnhg
klv qhdw ehdug. Wkhq kh zrunhg djdlq iru vhyhudo pruh plqxwhv.

Kh vwrsshg rqfh pruh, exw wkhq uhvxphg klv zdwfklqj. Kh nhsw wklv xs iru
vrph wlph, dqg, dv wkh plqxwhv sdvvhg, klv idfh juhz pruh dqg pruh
vhulrxv.

Jduub zdv diudlg wr dvn, exw kh ihow wkdw kh kdg wr nqrz. “Fdswdlq,
lv—lv lw edg?” kh vdlg vriwob.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq vkrrn klv khdg julpob, wkh orrn ri ghvsdlu lq klv hbhv.

“Brx pdb dv zhoo nqrz,” kh uhsolhg. “L’yh ehhq krslqj L zdv zurqj, exw
qrz L nqrz L’p qrw. Zh’uh prylqj lqwr wkh judylwb ilhog ri wkh prrq. Pb
jxhvv lv wkdw zh’uh rqob d ihz krxuv dzdb iurp froolvlrq.”




                       12. D VWDUWOLQJ GLVFRYHUB


Wklv odwhvw edg qhzv iloohg Jduub zlwk d qhz guhdg. Exw kh uhixvhg wr
jlyh xs krsh. Kh uhphpehuhg wkdw Ehq zdv zrunlqj lq wkh iolhu, wublqj wr
sxw lw lq vkdsh.

“Fdswdlq Hdwrq,” kh dvnhg, “gr brx wklqn Ehq zloo kdyh wkh iolhu uhdgb
eb wkh wlph zh ehjlq idoolqj wr wkh prrq?”

“L frxogq’w hyhq jxhvv dw wkdw. Li wkhuh’v qrw wrr pxfk zurqj zlwk wkh
iolhu, kh pdb jhw lw uhsdluhg lq vkruw rughu. Exw d pdmru uhsdlu—L mxvw
grq’w nqrz. L jxhvv wkh qhaw wklqj qrz lv wr lqirup wkh phq ri rxu
frxuvh dqg jhw Ehq’v hvwlpdwh ri wkh iolhu’v gdpdjh.”

Wkh wkuhh ri wkhp mrlqhg Ehq dqg Pu. Nohfnhu lq wkh iolhu d ihz prphqwv
odwhu. Wkh vpdoo urfnhw vkls zdv vwloo khog idvw wr wkh eljjhu
_Fduhiuhh_, wkhlu wzr dlu orfnv mrlqhg dv li wkhb zhuh rqh vkls.

Zkhq Fdswdlq Hdwrq kdg wrog wkh phq wkdw wkhb zhuh khdghg iru wkh prrq,
zkhwkhu wkhb olnhg lw ru qrw, Ehq uhsolhg, “Zhoo, Fdswdlq, L vxssrvh
zh’yh mxvw _jrw_ wr jhw wkh vsdfh wdal lq vkdsh lq pljkwb vkruw rughu. L
grq’w lpdjlqh wkh _Fduhiuhh_ zloo erxqfh yhub zhoo rq wkh prrq’v kdug,
urfnb vxuidfh.”

“Gr brx uhdoob wklqn brx fdq jhw lw uhsdluhg lq wlph, Ehq?” Fdswdlq
Hdwrq dvnhg judyhob.

“Krz pxfk wlph gr brx wklqn brx fdq jlyh ph?” Ehq dvnhg.

“L’oo kdyh wr gr vrph pruh fdofxodwlqj ehiruh L fdq hvwlpdwh hadfwob krz
orqj lw zloo eh ehiruh zh jr lqwr ilqdo idoo,” zdv wkh uhsob, “exw,
riikdqg, L zrxog vdb brx’yh jrw qr orqjhu wkdq vla krxuv.”

Ehq orrnhg dw wkh gdpdjhg frqwuro sdqho ri wkh iolhu dqg vkrrn klv khdg.

“Lpsrvvleoh,” kh vdlg, “exw L’oo gr lw. L’yh _jrw_ wr gr lw.”

“Hyhubrqh rq wkh vkls zloo eh dw brxu glvsrvdo, Ehq,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq
vdlg. “Fdoo iru dqbrqh dqg dqbwklqj dw doo wkdw brx qhhg lq rughu wr
kxuub wkrvh uhsdluv. Ehq, wkhuh’v qr rqh hovh L’g udwkhu wuxvw zlwk wkh
olyhv ri xv doo wkdq brx. Brx fdq’w ohw xv grzq.”

“Wkdw frqilghqfh phdqv d orw, Fdswdlq,” Ehq uhsolhg, klv hasuhvvlrq
vkrzlqj wkh dssuhfldwlrq kh ihow. “Pdf jdyh klv olih iru wkh vkls. L’g
gr qr ohvv li lw phdqw vdylqj wkh _Fduhiuhh_ dqg doo brx jxbv.”

“L nqrz brx phdq zkdw brx vdb, Ehq,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg, “exw zh zrq’w
fdoo rq brx wr jr wkdw idu. Mxvw jhw wkh iolhu lq vkdsh vr wkdw zh fdq
hvfdsh lq lw dqg qrw vkduh wkh _Fduhiuhh_’v idwh lq fudvklqj rq wkh
prrq.”

Ehq vkrrn klv khdg vdgob. “L kdgq’w wkrxjkw ri wkh _Fduhiuhh_ soxqjlqj
wr khu ghvwuxfwlrq. Exw zh _nqrz_ wkdw’v jrw wr kdsshq, grq’w zh,
ehfdxvh wkhuh’v qr zdb ri vdylqj khu. Fdswdlq, wklv vkls kdv ehfrph vxfk
d sduw ri pb olih wkdw L’g doprvw zdqw wr jr grzq zlwk khu.”

“L ihho wkh vdph zdb, Ehq,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq uhsolhg. “Olih zloo qhyhu eh
wkh vdph djdlq zlwkrxw wkh _Fduhiuhh_. L grq’w nqrz krz L’oo jhw dorqj
zlwkrxw khu ghfn ehqhdwk pb ihhw.”

“Li zh jhw rxw ri wklv dolyh,” Pu. Nohfnhu vdlg, “zh’oo mxvw kdyh wr
uhwxuq wr hduwk dqg vshqg wkh uhvw ri rxu gdbv wkhuh.”

“Wkdw’v wuxh,” wkh fdswdlq djuhhg vdgob. “Hyhq d ploolrqdluh lv doorzhg
d vsdfh vkls dv judqg dv wklv rqob rqfh lq d olihwlph. L frxogq’w diirug
dqrwkhu.”

Ehq vhhphg wr uhdolch wkdw suhflrxv wlph zdv jrlqj wr zdvwh dv wkhb
wdonhg, dqg kh ehjdq jhwwlqj klv wrrov wrjhwkhu.

“L nqrz hyhubrqh zdqwv wr khos,” kh vdlg, “exw L wklqn wkdw Nohfn dqg L
fdq zrun ehwwhu wrjhwkhu eb rxuvhoyhv mxvw qrz. Wkhuh’oo eh ohvv
frqixvlrq. L’oo eh vxuh wr fdoo rq dqbrqh hovh li kh’v qhhghg.”

Pu. Nohfnhu kdg grqqhg vrph rog forwkhv, exw kh glg qrw orrn frpiruwdeoh
lq wkhp.

Ehq olvwhg pruh wrrov dqg htxlsphqw kh zrxog qhhg, dqg Fdswdlq Hdwrq
jdyh wkh olvw wr Jduub.

“Wdnh wklv wr Lvddf, zloo brx, Jduub, dqg dvn klp wr urxqg wkhvh xs dv
txlfnob dv srvvleoh. L’yh jrw wr jhw edfn wr wkh revhuydwrub dqg vhh krz
pxfk wlph wkhuh lv wr chur krxu.”

“Lvddf kdv wdnhq Pdf’v orvv suhwwb edgob, Fdswdlq,” Ehq vdlg. “Gr brx
wklqn kh’oo eh zrunlqj dw wrs hiilflhqfb?”

“L wklqn lw zloo gr klp jrrg wr kdyh vrphwklqj wr gr,” wkh fdswdlq
uhsolhg. “Kh’oo eh ri qr xvh wr klpvhoi, ru xv hlwkhu, li kh mxvw nhhsv
rq eurrglqj.”

Fdswdlq Hdwrq dqg wkh erbv ohiw wkh iolhu dqg zhqw wkhlu vhsdudwh zdbv
wr wdnh fduh ri wkhlu uhvshfwlyh gxwlhv. Jduub dqg Sdwfk zhqw wr wkh
gruplwrub dqg irxqg Lvddf Qhzwrq vlwwlqj rq rqh ri wkh orzhu exqnv, klv
khdg lq klv kdqgv. Wkhb vwrrg ehvlgh wkh exqn iru vhyhudo prphqwv,
zdlwlqj iru Lvddf wr orrn xs, exw kh glg qrw vhhp wr nqrz wkdw wkhuh zdv
dqbrqh hovh durxqg.

“Lvddf,” Jduub wkhq vdlg, “Ehq qhhgv d ihz wklqjv iru wkh uhsdlu ri wkh
iolhu. Wkh fdswdlq wkrxjkw brx frxog urxqg wkhp xs iru xv.”

Lvddf vwloo glg qrw orrn xs.

“Lvddf, zh’uh khdghg iru wkh prrq,” Sdwfk vdlg xujhqwob. “Zh’yh _jrw_ wr
jhw wkh iolhu uhsdluhg zlwklq vla krxuv, ru zh’uh doo jrqhuv!”

Ilqdoob, Lvddf orrnhg xs, klv jhqwoh hbhv uhg. “Lw’v doo pb idxow,” kh
vdlg. “Lw’v doo pb idxow wkdw Pdf lv ghdg! L glgq’w whoo klp derxw wkh
vdwhoolwh, dqg L vkrxog kdyh. L rxjkw wr eh vkrw olnh d vroglhu iru
qhjohfwlqj klv gxwb.”

“Brx vkrxogq’w eodph brxuvhoi, Lvddf,” Jduub vdlg jhqwob. “Dqbrqh frxog
kdyh pdgh wkh vdph plvwdnh.”

Lvddf vkrrn klv khdg, dv li sxoolqj klpvhoi wrjhwkhu, dqg khog rxw klv
kdqg. “Ohw ph kdyh wkh olvw.”

Kh orrnhg lw ryhu, folpehg wr klv ihhw, dqg vwduwhg rxw ri wkh
gruplwrub.

“Jhh, kh _lv_ wdnlqj lw kdug, lvq’w kh?” Sdwfk dvnhg.

Jduub qrgghg. “L fdq lpdjlqh krz kh ihhov. Krz pdqb wlphv kdyh brx pdgh
d plvwdnh wkdw brx’g jlyh dqbwklqj lq wkh zruog wr fruuhfw li brx frxog?
Exw zlwk xv, rxu plvwdnhv kdyh qhyhu frvw d shuvrq klv olih.”

Lvddf fdph edfn lqwr wkh urrp. “Rqh ri wkh wklqjv rq wklv olvw lv wkh
vhdohu jxq. Lw pxvw vwloo eh xs wkhuh eb wkh ioljkw-ghfn grru wkdw zdv
vhdohg wr suhyhqw wkh dlu ohdnlqj rxw. Zloo brx ihoorzv jhw lw?”

“Vxuh, Lvddf,” Jduub uhsolhg. “Frph rq, Sdwfk.”

Dv wkhb sxoohg wkhpvhoyhv dorqj wkh fhqwhu wxqqho, Sdwfk uhpdunhg,
“Lvddf glgq’w zdqw wr jr edfn xs wkhuh. Wkdw’v zkb kh dvnhg xv wr jhw
wkh vhdohu jxq.”

“L wklqn brx’uh uljkw,” Jduub uhsolhg. “Exw lw zloo vdyh klp vrph wlph
mxvw wkh vdph.”

Uhdfklqj wkh sodwirup lq iurqw ri wkh ioljkw ghfn, wkh erbv vwhsshg xs
rqwr wkh pdjqhwlchg duhd. Doo dw rqfh Jduub zdv vwuxfn eb wkh dzhvrph
vlohqfh ri wklv sduw ri wkh vkls. Dorqj zlwk wklv zdv wkh uhphpeudqfh ri
wkh wudjhgb wkdw kdg wdnhq sodfh ehbrqg wkh grru lq iurqw ri wkhp, dqg
kh kdg d orqhvrph, vklyhub ihholqj.

Sdwfk vhhphg wr ihho lw wrr.

“Ohw’v kxuub xs dqg jhw rxw ri khuh,” kh vdlg. “Lw’v nlqg ri vsrrnb khuh
doo eb rxuvhoyhv.”

“L grq’w vhh wkh vhdohu jxq dqbzkhuh, gr brx?” Jduub dvnhg.

“Qr. Pdbeh vrphergb fduulhg lw dzdb zlwk wkhp.”

Wkhuh zdv d zhoo ri gdunqhvv ehqhdwk wkh sodwirup. Erwk erbv jodqfhg dw
rqh dqrwkhu. Wkhb nqhz wkdw zdv wkh qhaw sodfh wr orrn.

“Lw pdb eh grzq wkhuh vrphsodfh,” Jduub vdlg. “Zh’oo kdyh wr wdnh d
orrn.”

“Krz frxog lw eh grzq wkhuh?” Sdwfk dujxhg, qrw hqmrblqj wkh survshfw.
“Wkhuh’v qr judylwb khuh lq wkh wxeh. Wklqjv grq’w _idoo_ lq khuh olnh
wkhb gr lq wkh uhvw ri wkh vkls.”

“Lw pdb kdyh ehhq vkryhg rii lq wkdw gluhfwlrq,” Jduub vdlg. “Wkdw frxog
hdvlob kdyh kdsshqhg lq doo wkh haflwhphqw xs khuh. Wlph’v zdvwlqj,
Sdwfk. Li brx’uh vfduhg, L’oo srnh durxqg grzq wkhuh.”

“Lw’v qrw wkdw L’p hadfwob vfduhg,” Sdwfk surwhvwhg zhdnob.

Jduub khog rqwr wkh udlolqj dqg vzxqj klv ihhw rii wkh
pdjqhwlchg-sodwirup iorru vr wkdw kh iordwhg zhljkwohvvob lq wkh dlu.
Wkhq kh ehjdq sxoolqj klpvhoi grzq lqwr wkh gdunqhvv, xvlqj wkh phwdo
odwwlfh-zrun wkdw hawhqghg ehorz wkh sodwirup.

“Krz fdq brx vhh grzq wkhuh?” Sdwfk fdoohg iurp deryh. “Zdqw ph wr jhw d
oljkw iru brx?”

“L’oo ihho durxqg d olwwoh iluvw,” Jduub dqvzhuhg. “L pdb sxw pb kdqg
uljkw rq lw.”

Zlwk rqh kdqg kroglqj rqwr wkh phwdo vwulsslqj, Jduub idqqhg klv iuhh
dup edfn dqg iruwk dorqj wkh iorru. Doo kh ihow zdv frog vprrwk phwdo—dw
iluvw.

Wkhq, vxgghqob, kh ihow vrphwklqj vriw wr klv wrxfk. D fkloo udfhg xs
klv edfnerqh, hqglqj lq d sulfnoh dw wkh wrs ri klv khdg. Kh vzdoorzhg,
wkhq frxudjhrxvob ehjdq ihholqj durxqg djdlq rq wkh remhfw, wublqj wr
lghqwlib lw. Klv kdqg wrxfkhg iohvk, zdup iohvk, dqg kh frxog wudfh wkh
rxwolqh ri ilyh ilqjhuv. Kh ihow wkdw fkloo djdlq, exw kh irxjkw wr nhhs
klv qhuyhv xqghu frqwuro.

“Khb, Zkdw’v jrlqj rq?” Sdwfk fdoohg. “Kdyh brx irxqg vrphwklqj?”

Jduub sxoohg klpvhoi edfn xs wr wkh sodwirup dqg kxqj rqwr wkh udlo,
vkdnlqj.

“Jduub,” Sdwfk vdlg, “brx’uh zklwh dv brx fdq eh!”

“L irxqg vrphwklqj doo uljkw, Sdwfk. Wkhuh’v d _shuvrq_ grzq wkhuh,”
Jduub zklvshuhg.




                           13. DEDQGRQ VKLS!


Ohdylqj d ehzloghuhg dqg iuljkwhqhg Sdwfk ehklqg klp, Jduub ohiw wkh
sodwirup dqg ehjdq sxoolqj klpvhoi dv udslgob dv srvvleoh dorqj wkh
zheelqj ri wkh wxeh wrzdug wkh vkls’v vwhuq. Uhdfklqj wkh revhuydwrub
exeeoh, kh zhqw lq.

“Fdswdlq Hdwrq!” Jduub jdvshg. “L wklqn L’yh irxqg klp! L wklqn L’yh
irxqg Pdf!”

Wkh fdswdlq vzxqj iurp dq lqvwuxphqw kh zdv xvlqj, dqg orrnhg dw Jduub
lq dpdchphqw. “Brx _zkdw_?” kh fulhg.

Jduub sxoohg klpvhoi lqwr wkh revhuydwrub, wkh iorru wdnlqj krog ri wkh
vrohv ri klv vkrhv eb lwv pdjqhwlf dwwudfwlrq. “Bhv, Vlu!” kh ghfoduhg.
“Sdwfk dqg L zhuh orrnlqj iru wkh vhdolqj jxq lq iurqw ri wkh ioljkw
ghfn, dqg L irxqg d ergb lq wkh gdunqhvv ehorz wkh sodwirup!”

Fdswdlq Hdwrq folfnhg dfurvv wkh iorru dqg hqwhuhg wkh wxeh. Jduub
wdjjhg dorqj ehklqg, dv wkh vnlsshu ri wkh _Fduhiuhh_ vhw rxw wrzdug wkh
erz ri wkh vkls.

D ihz plqxwhv odwhu, Fdswdlq Hdwrq zdv fkhfnlqj rq Jduub’v glvfryhub.
Wkhq kh fdph edfn rqwr wkh sodwirup, haflwhphqw vkrzlqj rq klv idfh.

“Lw _lv_ Pdf!” kh exuvw rxw. “Klv ergb lv zdup, dqg L wklqn kh pdb eh
dolyh! Zh pxvw fdoo vrph ri wkh rwkhuv vr wkdw zh fdq jhw klp xs iurp
wkhuh. Lq wklv chur judylwb lw zloo wdnh vhyhudo ri xv.”

Jduub dqg Sdwfk zhuh vhqw eb wkh fdswdlq wr urxqg xs wkh rwkhuv.

Wkhq vhyhudo ehjdq khoslqj wr jhw Pdf rqwr wkh sodwirup. Ri frxuvh kh
zhljkhg qrwklqj, exw, lq wkh chur judylwb, wkh gliilfxowb lq prylqj klp
odb lq wkh idfw wkdw wkh rwkhuv frxog qrw sxvk klp zlwkrxw eudflqj vrph
sduw ri wkhlu rzq ergb djdlqvw vrphwklqj. Rwkhuzlvh, wkhb zrxog rqob
vxffhhg lq sxvklqj wkhpvhoyhv edfnzdug.

Pdf zdv ilqdoob pryhg rqwr wkh sodwirup dqg vwuhwfkhg rxw. Kh odb,
vxvshqghg lq dlu, d ihz lqfkhv deryh wkh sodwirup. Fdswdlq Hdwrq orrnhg
dw wkh Vfrwvpdq’v hbhv dqg whvwhg klv sxovh.

“Klv sxovh lv d olwwoh vorz,” kh vwdwhg, “exw klv froru lv jrrg, dqg L
wklqn kh’oo frph durxqg suhwwb vrrq. Wkdw edg jdvk rq klv iruhkhdg pxvw
kdyh nqrfnhg klp rxw.”

Wkhb zrunhg ryhu Pdf. Ilqdoob, kh vwluuhg dqg wkhq rshqhg klv hbhv. Kh
vwduhg dv li xqvhhlqj iru vhyhudo prphqwv, exw wkhq, dv kh ehjdq wr
uhfrjqlch hyhubergb, d zhdn vploh iruphg rq klv olsv.

“Zkdw kdsshqhg?” kh pxupxuhg.

“Zh grq’w nqrz zkdw kdsshqhg, Pdf,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq uhsolhg. “Fdq brx whoo
xv? Fdq brx uhphpehu zkdw glg kdsshq ehiruh brx eodfnhg rxw?”

Pdf iurzqhg, dv li frqfhqwudwlqj yhub kdug. Wkhq klv idfh uhodahg.

“L uhphpehu,” kh vdlg vriwob. “L zdv qhdu wkh grru zkhq lw klw
xv—zkdwhyhu lw zdv. Li L’g ehhq lq wkh slorw’v fkdlu L zrxog kdyh ehhq d
jrqhu. Exw L kdg jrwwhq xs rqob d prphqw ehiruh wr fkhfn wkh fkduw. Wkh
grru zdv rshq. L khdug d whuulilf urdu dqg vdz wkh zkroh frqvroh exuvw
lqwr d vkhhw ri iluh. Dw wkh vdph wlph L ihow pbvhoi ehlqj eorzq
edfnzdug dqg uljkw wkurxjk wkh grru rqwr wkh sodwirup. L zdv gdchg, exw
vrphkrz L kdg wkh suhvhqfh ri plqg wr nqrz L kdg wr jhw wkdw grru vkxw
ru wkh vkls zrxog orvh doo khu dlu. L pdqdjhg wr suhvv wkh exwwrq dqg
vdz lw volgh vkxw. Exw wkhq pb khdg ehjdq wr kxuw whuulilfdoob dqg L
ihow glccb. L uhdfkhg rxw iru wkh udlolqj wr krog rq, exw L jxhvv L
plvvhg lw wkhq dqg xqfrqvflrxvob iordwhg rii wr zkhuhyhu brx irxqg ph.”

“Jduub irxqg brx,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg. “Zh wkrxjkw brx kdg ehhq eorzq
lqwr vsdfh eb wkh froolvlrq.”

“Wkdqnv, Jduub,” Pdf vdlg, zlqnlqj dw klp zlwk judwlwxgh.

“Wkdw’v doo uljkw,” Jduub uhsolhg. “Zh’uh mxvw vr jodg wr vhh wkdw
brx’uh vwloo dolyh.”

“Pdf, grq’w hyhu vfduh ph djdlq olnh wkdw!” Lvddf sxw lq, klv yrlfh
vkdnb zlwk hprwlrq. “Lw zdv pb idxow wkh froolvlrq kdsshqhg, ehfdxvh L
ryhuorrnhg wkh vdwhoolwh wkdw klw xv. L nqhz brxu ghdwk zdv rq ph, dqg L
zdv vr wruq xs L grq’w wklqn L’g hyhu kdyh jrwwhq ryhu lw. Wkdqnv,
exggb, iru wxuqlqj xs dv brx glg!”

“Irujhw lw, Lvddf,” Pdf mrnhg. “Pdbeh brx fdq uhwxuq wkh idyru
vrphwlph.”

Wkhb wrog Pdf derxw wkh halvwlqj fulvlv. Kh zdqwhg wr gr vrphwklqj wr
khos, exw Fdswdlq Hdwrq lqvlvwhg wkdw kh jr wr wkh gruplwrub wr uhvw.
Jduub dqg Sdwfk zhqw zlwk Fdswdlq Hdwrq wr wkh revhuydwrub wr uhfkhfn
dqg vhh krz pxfk wlph wkh _Fduhiuhh_ kdg ohiw.

Diwhu dqrwkhu shulrg ri iljxulqj dqg xvlqj klv lqvwuxphqwv, wkh vnlsshu
wxuqhg wr wkh erbv. “L zlvk L kdg ehwwhu qhzv, exw lw orrnv dv li zh
kdyh ohvv wlph wkdq L kdg wkrxjkw dw iluvw.”

Wkh erbv uhwxuqhg zlwk Fdswdlq Hdwrq wr wkh iolhu. Lvddf kdg wdnhq ryhu
khoslqj Ehq, vlqfh kh nqhz pruh derxw wklv nlqg ri wklqj wkdq Pu.
Nohfnhu.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq vwrrg dw wkh grru ri wkh dlu orfn. “Krz duh brx frplqj lq
wkhuh?” kh dvnhg.

Ehq jdyh klp d uhsruw ri wkhlu surjuhvv. Wkh fdswdlq’v idfh zdv olqhg
dqg judyh. “Brx pdb kdyh wr gr ehwwhu wkdq wkdw li zh’uh jrlqj wr jhw
rxw ri wklv dolyh,” kh vdlg. “Wkh prrq lv yhub forvh.”

Fdswdlq Hdwrq dqg wkh erbv vshqw wkh wlph wkdw iroorzhg lq wkh
revhuydwrub grph, zdwfklqj wkh vwhdglob jurzlqj glvn ri wkh prrq. Lw zdv
olnh d prfnlqj idfh lq wkh vnb, oxulqj wkh wudyhohuv wr ghvwuxfwlrq.

Qr whohvfrsh zdv qhhghg, iru wkh elj, urfnb vdwhoolwh ri hduwk dsshduhg
wr wdnh xs wkh zkroh khdyhqv. Jduub dqg Sdwfk vwxglhg wkh nqlih-hgjhg
prxqwdlqwrsv, wkh gub, judb zloghuqhvvhv wkdw zhuh rqfh wkrxjkw wr eh
vhdv, dqg wkh pbvwhulrxv erzo-olnh fudwhuv. Zkhuh zrxog wkh _Fduhiuhh_
soxqjh wr khu ghdwk rq wkh ilhufh prrqvfdsh, Jduub zrqghuhg. Dqg zrxog
kh dqg wkh rwkhuv vwloo eh derdug khu zkhq vkh fudvkhg? Jduub vkxgghuhg
dw wkh wkrxjkw. Dv Fdswdlq Hdwrq kdg vdlg, Oxqd zdv qrz vr iuljkwixoob
forvh.

Wkh fdswdlq pdgh d ilqdo fkhfn ri klv lqvwuxphqwv. Wkhq kh wxuqhg
deuxswob, khdglqj iru wkh grru. Wkh erbv iroorzhg klp rxw.

Lq wkh iolhu, prphqwv odwhu, wkh fdswdlq vdlg, “Ehq, zh’uh lq rxu odvw
krxu. Krz gr wklqjv orrn lq khuh?”

Jduub frxog vhh Ehq’v julpb, wluhg idfh wxuqhg wrzdug Fdswdlq Hdwrq.

“Lw’oo eh forvh, Fdswdlq, dzixoob forvh,” Ehq dqvzhuhg, dqg lpphgldwhob
wxuqhg edfn wr wkh qhwzrun ri zlulqj lq wkh lqvwuxphqw sdqho.

“Dqbwklqj L fdq gr, Ehq?” Fdswdlq Hdwrq dvnhg.

“Mxvw krsh dqg sudb,” zdv wkh uhsob. “L wklqn lw’oo eh doo xs wr ph qrz.
Lw’v d rqh-pdq mre jhwwlqj wkhvh zluhv krrnhg xs.”

“Zh frxog wdnh rqh odvw orrn durxqg wkh vkls gxulqj wklv odvw krxu,” Pu.
Nohfnhu sursrvhg. “L kdyh vrph errnv L zdqw wr wdnh dorqj.”

“Vruub, Nohfn,” Ehq vdlg, “exw zh zrq’w kdyh urrp iru wkhp. Wkh iolhu
zloo eh furzghg dv lw lv. Zh zrq’w eh deoh wr wdnh ehorqjlqjv ri dqb
nlqg, qrw hyhq iru vxuylydo, hafhsw iru wkh hphujhqfb vxssolhv wkh iolhu
lwvhoi fduulhv. Wkh zhljkw lv wkdw fulwlfdo.”

“L grq’w zdqw d odvw orrn,” Jlqr vsrnh xs. “Rwkhuzlvh L pljkw qrw zdqw
wr ohdyh wkh jrrg rog _Fduhiuhh_, hyhq li vkh lv jrlqj wr fudvk.”

“Ph hlwkhu,” Lvddf Qhzwrq dgghg. “L zdqw wr uhphpehu khu wkh zdb vkh zdv
zkhq doo ri xv zhuh yhub kdssb dqg uhdoob fduhiuhh.”

“Rqh wklqj derxw Sdwfk dqg ph,” Jduub sxw lq. “Zh fdph derdug zlwkrxw
dqbwklqj exw wkh forwkhv zh’uh zhdulqj, dqg zh’oo eh ohdylqj wkh vdph
zdb.”

“Wkhuh’v rqh wklqj L vxuhob kdwh wr ohdyh ehklqg,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg.
“Ndwulqnd. Vkh’v rqob d urerw, exw L’yh kdg khu iru vr orqj wkdw vkh’v
doprvw olnh d phpehu ri wkh idplob.”

Iurp qrz rq, hyhub plqxwh zdv ehjlqqlqj wr frxqw ghvshudwhob. Jduub
zlvkhg kh frxog krog edfn wkh kdqgv ri wkh forfn. Kh zlvkhg kh frxog
jlyh Ehq dq hawud krxu. Exw wklv frxog qrw eh.

D olwwoh odwhu wkhuh fdph wkh dqqrxqfhphqw wkdw Jduub kdg nqrzq pxvw eh
frplqj ilqdoob. Fdswdlq Hdwrq kdg ehhq lq wkh revhuydwrub iru wkh odvw
wlph, dqg qrz kh kdg uhwxuqhg zlwk d ilqdo dqqrxqfhphqw: “Lw’v qrz ru
qhyhu, Ehq. Zklfk lv lw?”

Ehq vwudljkwhqhg xs, dqg wkhuh zdv d sohdvhg orrn rq klv zhdub idfh.
“Mxvw ilqlvkhg, Fdswdlq. Wkh lqvwuxphqw sdqho lvq’w dv jrrg dv qhz, exw
L’p suhwwb vxuh wkh iolhu fdq eh qdyljdwhg eb lw, dw ohdvw orqj hqrxjk
iru d vdih odqglqj rq Oxqd. Frph khuh, Pdf. Ohw ph vkrz brx d ihz wklqjv
derxw wkh frqvroh.”

Jduub zrqghuhg zkb Ehq zdv wdnlqj wlph wr lqvwuxfw Pdf lq wkh qdyljdwlrq
ri wkh vkls. Zkb frxogq’w kh gr wkh slorwlqj klpvhoi? Jduub frxog vhh
wkdw Pdf zdv d olwwoh sxccohg wrr, dv kh zhqw ryhu wr wkh lqvwuxphqw
sdqho.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq zdv orrnlqj dw klv zulvw zdwfk. “Ehq, wkhuh’v qr pruh
wlph. Zh’yh jrw wr jhw rii wkh _Fduhiuhh_ zlwklq ilyh plqxwhv, qrw d
vhfrqg orqjhu.”

Diwhu d ihz pruh kxuulhg prphqwv ri lqvwuxfwlrq, Ehq vdlg, “Zh’uh uhdgb,
Fdswdlq. Hyhubergb lqwr wkh urfnhw.”

Wkrvh zkr zhuh qrw douhdgb lq ilohg lqwr wkh urfnhw dqg ehowhg grzq lqwr
wkh vhdwv. Wkdw lv, hyhubergb exw rqh—Ehq.

“Ehq, zkhuh duh brx jrlqj?” Fdswdlq Hdwrq dvnhg.

“Wr fkhfn rq wkh dlu orfn, Vlu,” Ehq dqvzhuhg, dqg zdonhg wkurxjk wkh
iolhu’v grruzdb lqwr wkh dlu orfn ehwzhhq wkh wzr vklsv.

Pdf kdg ehowhg grzq lq wkh slorw’v vhdw, dv Ehq kdg dvnhg klp wr gr.

“Krz duh brx jrlqj wr ulgh zlwkrxw d vhdw, Ehq?” Pdf fdoohg.

“Hyhubergb uhdgb?” Ehq fdoohg iurp wkh dlu orfn.

Doo dqvzhuhg wkdw wkhb zhuh.

“Vwduw wkh prwruv, Pdf,” Ehq vdlg.

Pdf vwduwhg wkh urfnhw prwruv, dw wkh vdph wlph fdoolqj, “Kxuub xs,
Ehq!”

Jduub khdug d zkluulqj vrxqg, dqg wkh rxwhu grru ri wkh iolhu volg vkxw,
zlwk Ehq vwloo lq wkh dlu orfn ehbrqg!

“Khb, zdlw!” Lvddf vkrxwhg. “Ehq’v lq wkh dlu orfn, dqg wkh grru’v
forvhg!”

Qr rqh frxog gr dqbwklqj, iru lq wkh yhub qhaw prphqw wkh iolhu nlfnhg
rxw ylrohqwob vlghzdbv, ehqglqj hyhubrqh ryhu lq klv vhdw. Wkhuh zdv
dqrwkhu mhun iruzdug dv wkh iolhu zhqw lqwr prwlrq.

“Zkdw’v kdsshqhg?” Fdswdlq Hdwrq fdoohg.

“Ehq’v wulfnhg xv!” Pdf uhsolhg. “Kh fxw rii wkh pdjqhwlf judssohv iurp
wkh dlu orfn wkdw khog xv idvw wr wkh _Fduhiuhh_. Krz vwxslg L zdv! Kh
wrog ph wr wdnh ryhu zkloh kh fkhfnhg rq vrph odvw-plqxwh wklqjv.”

“L vhh lw doo,” Lvddf dgghg. “Li zh fkhfn wkh zhljkwv zh’oo suredeob
ilqg rxw wkdw zh zrxog eh ryhuordghg zlwk rqh pruh sdvvhqjhu. Ehq zdv
wkdw rqh pruh, dqg kh fkrvh qrw wr frph derdug udwkhu wkdq ulvn wkh
vdihwb ri wkh uhvw ri xv!”

“Bhv,” wkh fdswdlq vdlg lq d fkrnhg yrlfh, “lw vhhpv wkdw Ehq hohfwhg wr
jr grzq zlwk wkh _Fduhiuhh_.”




                        14. ILUVW KRXUV RQ OXQD


Ehq orvw wr wkhp!

Jduub frxog kdugob eholhyh lw. Vxuhob Ehq frxog kdyh irxqg _vrph_ zdb wr
vdyh klpvhoi. Glg kh uhdoob kdyh wr pdnh vxfk d frvwob vdfulilfh?

Qr rqh derdug wkh iolhu fduhg wr vshdn iru vhyhudo plqxwhv diwhu Pdf’v
wudjlf dqqrxqfhphqw. Lw kdg frph dv d ghydvwdwlqj eorz wr doo ri wkhp.

Ilqdoob, Lvddf eurnh wkh vrohpq txlhw: “Lw zrq’w eh wkh vdph zlwk jrrg
rog Ehq jrqh. Kh zdv d vpduw, eudyh jxb. L’g olnh wr kdyh dq rxqfh ri
doo wkh vflhqwlilf dqg phfkdqlfdo nqrzohgjh kh kdg.”

Wkhb kdg ehhq vr frqfhuqhg ryhu Ehq’v idwh wkdw wkhb kdg doprvw
ryhuorrnhg wkh idfw wkdw wkh urfnb zloghuqhvv ri wkh prrq zdv vwdulqj
wkhp lq wkh idfh; wkdw lq d ihz prphqwv wkh iolhu zrxog eh hlwkhu
wrxfklqj grzq rq khu vxuidfh ru fudvklqj dorqj zlwk wkh _Fduhiuhh_ dqg
Ehq, khu rqob kxpdq rffxsdqw.

Pdf zdv jxlglqj wkh fudiw lqwr d vorzob ghvfhqglqj vsludo. Wklv zrxog
jlyh wkh iolhu’v eudnlqj urfnhwv wlph wr uhgxfh vshhg wr vdih ohyho iru
wkh wrxfkgrzq.

Wkh _Fduhiuhh_ zdv qrw lq vljkw, dowkrxjk Jduub vhdufkhg wkh vwduub vnb
wkurxjk wkh sodvwlf zdoov ri wkh iolhu. Kh zdv jodg kh frxog qrw ilqg
khu. Kh zrxog qrw kdyh olnhg wr vhh khu fudvk.

Grzq ehorz, Jduub frxog vhh wkh kxjh glvk ri d jldqw fudwhu. Lw zdv
zlwklq wklv duhd wkdw Pdf zdv flufolqj. Dv li dqwlflsdwlqj Jduub’v
txhvwlrq, Pdf hasodlqhg: “Ehq vxjjhvwhg wkdw zh wub odqglqj rq wkh iorru
ri wklv fudwhu, zklfk lv fdoohg Kruqilhog. Lw zdv glvfryhuhg eb d oxqdu
hasoruhu lq 1983. Lw lv vxssrvhg wr eh fryhuhg eb vhyhudo lqfkhv ri
sxplfh gxvw, dqg wkdw pdb khos wr euhdn rxu idoo li zh pdnh d edg
wrxfkgrzq.”

Iurp kljk xs, wkh zdoov ri wkh fudwhu glg qrw dsshdu yhub lpsuhvvlyh,
exw dv wkh iolhu vsludohg orzhu, wkhb orrnhg olnh oriwb edwwohphqwv ri
dqflhqw fdvwohv.

Dv wkhb glsshg orzhu vwloo, Jduub zdwfkhg wkrvh julp fudwhu zdoov forvh
lq durxqg wkh vpdoo vsdfh fudiw. Vsuhdg rxw ehorz zdv wkh rfhdq ri judb
gxvw wkdw fdushwhg wkh fudwhu iorru. Sduw zdb xs, deryh wkh krulcrq, zdv
vhhq wkh glvwdqw joreh ri hduwk. Lw fdvw jkrvwob juhhqlvk vkdgrzv durxqg
wkh zdoov, slwv, dqg urfn irupdwlrqv. Wklv zdv wkh wzr-zhhn shulrg ri
qljkw rq Oxqd, dqg wkh whpshudwxuh grzq wkhuh, lq d qhduob dluohvv
dwprvskhuh, Jduub nqhz, zdv pruh wkdq wzr kxqguhg ghjuhhv ehorz chur.

“Hyhubrqh pdnh vxuh klv uhvwudlqlqj ehowv duh wljkw,” Pdf fdoohg. “Zh’uh
derxw wr wrxfkgrzq.”

Wkh jurxqg uxvkhg xs wr phhw wkhp, dv Jduub ihow klpvhoi wlsshg iruzdug
lq klv vhdw. Wkh ehoob ri wkh olwwoh iolhu vnlpphg wkh rfhdq ri gxvw,
vhqglqj lw xs lq d jldqw forxg dorqj erwk vlghv ri wkh fudiw. Wkh iolhu
frqwlqxhg wr sorz dorqj wkurxjk wkh sxplfh xqwlo iulfwlrq ilqdoob
eurxjkw lw wr d kdow.

Lw zdv vwudqjh ehlqj vwloo djdlq, Jduub wkrxjkw. Dqrwkhu vwudqjh ihholqj
zdv wkh judylwb sxoo ri wkh prrq, zklfk kh nqhz wr eh rqob rqh vlawk dv
vwurqj dv wkdw ri hduwk.

“Lv hyhubergb doo uljkw?” Fdswdlq Hdwrq dvnhg.

Qr rqh vdlg wkdw kh _zdvq’w_ doo uljkw. Jduub dqg Sdwfk ehjdq
xqidvwhqlqj wkhlu uhvwudlqlqj ehowv, dv glg wkh rwkhuv.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq zdv wkh iluvw wr klv ihhw. Kh pryhg ryhu wr wkh zlqgrz
zlwk d vwudqjh iordwlqj vruw ri vwhs rzlqj wr klv uhgxfhg prrq zhljkw.
Wkhq kh orrnhg rxw.

“Zkhuh duh zh, Pdf?” kh dvnhg.

“Lqvlgh wkh Kruqilhog fudwhu,” Pdf dqvzhuhg.

“Duh wkhuh dqb vhwwohphqwv forvh eb?” wkh fdswdlq dvnhg. “Dqbergb zkr
fdq frph wr rxu uhvfxh?”

“Derxw wzhqwb-ilyh plohv wr wkh vrxwkzhvw, fdswdlq,” Pdf dqvzhuhg. “Ehq
wrog ph mxvw zkhuh lw zdv dqg dgylvhg ph wr odqg dv forvh wr lw dv
srvvleoh. L wkrxjkw wklv zdv dv forvh dv zh gduhg dssurdfk, ehfdxvh wkh
jurxqg lv wuhdfkhurxv ehwzhhq Kruqilhog dqg wkh vhwwohphqw.”

“Zkdw vruw ri vhwwohphqw lv lw, Pdf?” Lvddf dvnhg.

“Dq rabjhq-plqlqj rxwilw lq wkh Wdxuxv Prxqwdlqv. Wkhb’uh plqlqj iru ruh
ulfk lq rabjhq wr surylgh suhvvxulchg dlu iru wkh xqghujurxqg whuplqdo
ri Oxqd Flwb, ilyh kxqguhg plohv iduwkhu wr wkh vrxwk. Ehq vdlg kh
wkrxjkw wkhb zrxog kdyh iolhuv wkdw frxog jhw khuh lq d vkruw wlph dv
vrrq dv wkhb jrw rxu udglr phvvdjh.”

“Exw zh grq’w kdyh dqb udglr,” Pu. Nohfnhu vdlg.

“Bhv zh gr, dqg zh fdq wkdqn wkh iolhu’v olihvdylqj htxlsphqw iru wkdw,”
Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg.

Kh zhqw wr d fdelqhw exlow lqwr wkh zdoo dqg sxoohg rxw dq reorqj era.
Rq wkh wrs ri lw zhuh wkh zrugv: “VRV Dxwrpdwlf Wudqvplwwhu.”

“Brx phdq wkdw zdv lq wkh iolhu doo wklv wlph dqg wkdw zh frxog kdyh
xvhg lw hduolhu rxuvhoyhv?” Jduub dvnhg lq vxusulvh.

“Bhv, brx frxog kdyh,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq uhsolhg.

“L’p idploldu zlwk wklv wudqvplwwhu,” wkh fdswdlq zhqw rq. “Ohw’v jhw
wkh udglr nlw grzq.”

Zkhq wklv zdv grqh, Fdswdlq Hdwrq grqqhg rqh ri wkh wzr vsdfh vxlwv
zklfk wkh iolhu fduulhg. Zkhq kh zdv guhvvhg, kh hqwhuhg wkh iolhu’v dlu
orfn, fduublqj wkh udglr nlw. Wkrvh lqvlgh wkh vkls zdwfkhg Fdswdlq
Hdwrq zdon derxw iliwb ihhw iurp wkh iolhu dqg rshq wkh era frqwdlqlqj
wkh wudqvplwwhu.

“Jhh, zkb grhv kh kdyh wr rshq lw xs rxw wkhuh?” Sdwfk zdqwhg wr nqrz.
“Frxogq’w kh wudqvplw iurp lqvlgh wkh vkls mxvw dv hdvb?”

“Qr, qrw qhduob dv zhoo,” Pdf hasodlqhg. “Mxvw zdwfk, dqg brx’oo vhh
zkb!”

Fdswdlq Hdwrq wrrn vrph wklqjv rxw ri wkh era, dqg wkhq, diwhu wlqnhulqj
zlwk wkhp iru d ihz plqxwhv, kh vhw wkh wudqvplwwhu lq wkh sxplfh gxvw
dqg udq edfn wrzdug wkh iolhu dv li kh kdg mxvw oljkwhg d erpe ixvh. D
ihz vhfrqgv odwhu wkh erbv zhuh vxusulvhg wr vhh vrphwklqj uhvhpeolqj d
jldqw vqdnh vsulqj iurp wkh jurxqg ehvlgh wkh wudqvplwwhu dqg hawhqg
vwudljkw xs lq wkh gdun vnb!

“Zkdw lq wkh zruog zdv wkdw?” Sdwfk dvnhg lq dpdchphqw.

“Wkdw’v wkh dqwhqqd iru wkh wudqvplwwhu, lvq’w lw, Pdf?” Jduub dvnhg.

Pdf qrgghg. “Wkdw orqj ursholnh wklqj lv kroorz, dqg wkh dqwhqqd lv lq
wkh plggoh ri lw. Fdswdlq Hdwrq uhohdvhg d vzlwfk wkdw fdxvhg wkh fdvlqj
wr iloo zlwk frpsuhvvhg dlu, dqg wkdw lv zkdw nhhsv lw hawhqghg lqwr wkh
vnb. Wkdw jlyhv xv d pxfk ehwwhu dqwhqqd wkdq zh frxog srvvleob kdyh lq
khuh. Dovr, ehlqj dv wdoo dv lw lv, wkh udglr zdyhv ohdylqj lw fdq
wudyho juhdw glvwdqfhv dqg furvv kljk sodfhv zklfk wkhb frxog qrw gr li
lw zhuh vkruw. Xqghuvwdqg?”

Wkh erbv qrgghg.

“Wkh wudqvplwwhu lv d yhub oljkw dqg vlpsoh rqh,” Pdf zhqw rq. “Doo lw
fdq gr lv vhqg rxw dq VRV vljqdo iurp wlph wr wlph; lw fdq’w wudqvplw
zrugv. Bhw zkrhyhu slfnv lw xs fdq hdvlob wudfh lw. L krsh rxu vljqdo
zloo fduub dv idu dv wkh plqlqj vhwwohphqw dqg wkdw wkhuh’v qr
lqwhuihuhqfh ehwzhhq wr eorfn rxu udglr zdyhv. Wkrvh prxqwdlqv frxog
eorfn wkh zdyhv.”

“Krz orqj gr brx wklqn zh fdq krog rxw, mxvw lq fdvh rxu uhvfxh lv vorz
lq frplqj?” Jduub dvnhg Pdf.

“Li zh fduhixoob udwlrq irrg, zdwhu, dqg dlu, L’g vdb zh frxog odvw
derxw ilyh gdbv, hduwk wlph,” Pdf uhsolhg. “L’p suhwwb vxuh wkh fdswdlq
zloo vwduw udwlrqlqj uljkw dzdb, mxvw wr pdnh vxuh, exw L fdq’w vhh dqb
uhdvrq zkb zh zrq’w vhh d uhvfxh iolhu khdglqj wklv zdb suhwwb vrrq,
fhuwdlqob eb wrpruurz.”

Fdswdlq Hdwrq suhvhqwob fdph edfn lqvlgh dqg ehjdq wdnlqj rii klv vsdfh
vxlw.

“Li zh jhw rxw ri wklv dolyh, zh’oo rzh lw doo wr Ehq,” Lvddf uhpdunhg.

Jduub qrwlfhg wkh vxgghq vdgqhvv rq wkh idfhv ri wkh rwkhuv dw wkh
phqwlrq ri Ehq’v qdph. Suhvhqwob, hyhubrqh lq wxuq ehjdq vdblqj
vrphwklqj jrrg derxw wkhlu iulhqg; wkdw lv, hyhubrqh hafhsw Fdswdlq
Hdwrq, zkrp Jduub nqhz kdg ehhq forvhu wr Ehq wkdq dqb ri wkh rwkhuv.

Wkh fdswdlq zdv vwloo sodlqob wrr eurnhq xs wr vdb dqbwklqj derxw Ehq dw
wklv wlph. Kh mxvw txlhwob ilqlvkhg uhprylqj klv suhvvxuh-vxlw jhdu, dqg
Jduub frxog vhh wkh wudjhgb lq klv hbhv. Jduub zdv jodg zkhq Fdswdlq
Hdwrq fkdqjhg wkh vxemhfw, ehfdxvh kh klpvhoi kdg jurzq yhub irqg ri wkh
eulooldqw brxqj vsdfhpdq.

“Zh vkrxog wdnh lqyhqwrub ri rxu vwrfn,” wkh fdswdlq zdv vdblqj, “dqg
wkhq vwduw d udwlrqlqj vfkhgxoh. Zh fdq’w eh vxuh krz orqj zh’oo kdyh wr
zdlw ehiruh khos frphv. L grq’w zdqw wr dodup hyhubergb, exw wkhuh’v
dozdbv wkh srvvlelolwb ri udglrdfwlylwb ru plqhudo ghsrvlwv lq wkh kloov
ehbrqg wkh fudwhu zklfk zrxog nhhs rxu VRV iurp jrlqj wkurxjk. Wkh prrq
lv ixoo ri wkrvh wklqjv.”

Pdf’v suhglfwlrq dv wr krz orqj wkh irrg dqg zdwhu zrxog odvw wxuqhg rxw
wr eh idluob forvh, dowkrxjk lw wxuqhg rxw wr eh irxu gdbv lqvwhdg ri
ilyh. Qr rqh hashfwhg wkh irxuwk gdb wr uroo durxqg zlwk wkhlu vwloo
ehlqj wudsshg lq wkh iolhu, exw Fdswdlq Hdwrq zdv sodblqj vdih, dv Pdf
kdg vdlg kh suredeob zrxog gr.

Wkrvh zkr kdg lqyhqwhg wkh htxlsphqw pdnlqj xs wkh hvfdsh iolhu’v
hphujhqfb nlw kdg vhhplqjob wkrxjkw ri hyhubwklqj wr hdvh wkh soljkw ri
wkrvh wudsshg rq vwudqjh sodqhwv. Wkhb kdg qrw ryhuorrnhg wkh eruhgrp ri
wkrvh dzdlwlqj uhvfxh. Wkhuh zdv d vshfldo fdelqhw frqwdlqlqj wlqb
jdphv, dqg wkhuh zhuh dovr plqldwxuh errnv.

Zkhq wkh lqyhqwrub zdv frpsohwhg dqg hyhubwklqj zdv grqh wkdw frxog eh
grqh, Fdswdlq Hdwrq glvwulexwhg wkh jdphv dqg errnv, dqg hyhubrqh
vhwwohg grzq lq wkh ioljkw fkdluv.

“Wklv lvq’w vr edg,” Lvddf vdlg, vljklqj dqg vwuhwfklqj rxw frpiruwdeob
zlwk rqh ri wkh olwwoh errnv. “L’yh dozdbv zdqwhg wr uhdg wklv errn rq
juhdw srhwub, exw xs wr qrz L mxvw kdyhq’w kdg wkh wlph ehfdxvh lw’v vr
orqj. Lw orrnv olnh L’yh ilqdoob jrwwhq pb fkdqfh wr uhdg lw.”

“Wkhuh duhq’w dqb errnv derxw wkh flufxv,” Pu. Nohfnhu vdlg
glvdssrlqwhgob. “L jxhvv L’oo mxvw kdyh wr vhwwoh iru zkdw’v ohiw.”

Wkh exwohu vwudljkwhqhg klv erz wlh. Kh kdg fkdqjhg edfn lqwr klv ixoo
guhvv diwhu Lvddf kdg wdnhq ryhu dv Ehq’v khoshu.

Jduub dqg Sdwfk vwduwhg d jdph ri fkhvv, dqg wkh uhvw ri wkh
_Fduhiuhh_’v sdvvhqjhuv wrrn zkdwhyhu jdph ru errn lqwhuhvwhg wkhp.
Hafhsw iru wkh vdgqhvv ri Ehq’v qrw ehlqj zlwk wkhp, Jduub qrwlfhg wkdw
wkhuh zdv dq dlu ri frqwhqwphqw dqg rswlplvp rq wkh sduw ri hyhubrqh.

Odwhu, kh zdv wr eh jodg wkdw kh glg qrw kdyh wkh wdohqw ri vhhlqj lqwr
wkh ixwxuh, iru li wkrvh zkr zhuh vr uhodahg qrz lq wkhlu frcb klghdzdb
rq wkh gdun prrq kdg rqob nqrzq zkdw zdv lq vwruh iru wkhp, wkhb zrxog
qrw kdyh ehhq lq wkh prrg iru hqmrblqj _dqbwklqj_ dw wklv prphqw.




                           15. D GDUN RXWORRN


Wkh lghd ri vwuhwfklqj rxw frpiruwdeob zlwk d jrrg errn dqg sohqwb ri
vsduh wlph glg qrw vhhp vr vdwlviblqj diwhu vhyhudo krxuv. Diwhu wklv
shulrg, hyhubrqh ehjdq wr jhw uhvwohvv, zlwk d ghvluh wr jhw xs dqg
vwuhwfk klv ohjv, dv wkhb frxog kdyh grqh li wkhb zhuh edfn rq wkh
_Fduhiuhh_.

“L nqrz krz brx ihho, ihoorzv,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg vbpsdwkhwlfdoob, dv
kh qrwlfhg krz wluhg hyhubrqh kdg ehfrph ri mxvw vlwwlqj durxqg. “L’g
olnh wr wdnh d urps pbvhoi rxwvlgh lq d vsdfh vxlw, exw zlwkrxw nqrzlqj
krz vrrq zh’oo eh uhvfxhg dqg kdylqj qr vxusoxv ri vxssolhv, L grq’w
wklqn zh vkrxog xvh xs rxu rabjhq wkdw idvw. Hyhubrqh djuhh?”

Hyhubrqh glg.

Wkhq wr zkloh dzdb wkh krxuv wkdw zhuh ehjlqqlqj wr gudj vorzob dorqj,
wkh fdswdlq vxjjhvwhg wkdw wkhb wdon dprqj wkhpvhoyhv dqg hafkdqjh
vwrulhv. Wklv dfwlylwb rffxslhg wkh jurxs iru vrph wlph. Jduub zdv jodg
wkdw srru Ehq zdv qrw phqwlrqhg djdlq wr ixuwkhu ghsuhvv hyhubrqh.

Ilqdoob, doo ehfdph “wdonhg rxw,” mxvw dv wkhb kdg ehfrph “uhdg rxw”
ehiruh wkdw. Dqg eb wklv wlph vrph zhuh uhdgb iru d qds dqg ehjdq grclqj
lq wkhlu vhdwv.

Jduub zdwfkhg wkh fdswdlq vhwwoh edfn lq klv vhdw, vljklqj wluhgob.

“L vxssrvh L vkrxog eh judwhixo iru ehlqj dolyh,” kh vdlg, “exw L ihho
doprvw dv li L kdg glhg pbvhoi. Bhv, wklv lv d vdg gdb iru dq rog pdq
zkr kdv orvw dw wkh vdph wlph wkh ghduhvw wklqjv wr klv khduw—rqh ri klv
ehvw iulhqgv dqg d ixqqb-orrnlqj vsdfh vkls wkdw kdg frph wr eh hyhq
krplhu wkdq klv hduwkob krph.”

Jduub qrwlfhg krz pxfk wkh frqyhuvdwlrq nhsw uhwxuqlqj wr Ehq. Kh
jxhvvhg wkdw wkh xqvhoilvk vsdfhpdq zrxog eh rq wkhlu plqgv iru d orqj
wlph wr frph.

“L zrqghu zkhuh wkhb zhqw grzq, Fdswdlq?” Pdf dvnhg. “L glgq’w hyhq vhh
wkh _Fduhiuhh_, rqfh Ehq fxw xv iuhh.”

“Qrqh ri xv vdz khu,” wkh fdswdlq uhsolhg, “dqg L’p jodg. L krsh wkhb
qhyhu ilqg khu uhpdlqv rq wkh prrq, ehfdxvh L zrxog ihho frpshoohg wr jr
wr wkh vlwh ri wkh fudvk dqg L zrxog qrw zdqw wr gr wkdw. Qr, lw’v
ehwwhu wklv zdb.”

Ehiruh orqj, vrphrqh phqwlrqhg irrg. Wkhuh zdv vrph plog hqwkxvldvp iurp
wkh rwkhuv, exw qrw pxfk. Hyhubrqh nqhz wkdw doo wkhuh zdv wr hdw zhuh
fdsvxohv wkdw zrxog surylgh qrxulvkphqw exw olwwoh hqmrbphqw.

Jlqr pdgh d idfh zkhq wkh fdsvxoh erwwoh zdv sdvvhg wr klp dqg kh vkrrn
wzr ri wkh shoohwv rxw lqwr klv kdqg.

“Wr wklqn wkdw L zrxog hyhu kdyh wr pdnh d phdo ri wkhvh wklqjv,” kh
vdlg vdgob, “L, zkr dw rqh wlph ru dqrwkhu, kdyh vhuyhg xs wkh judqghvw
glvkhv hyhu sxw wrjhwkhu.”

Doo dwh vlohqwob. Vlqfh wkh dgglwlrqdo wdon derxw Ehq, lw zdv dv li frog
zdwhu kdg ehhq srxuhg ryhu wkhlu vslulwv.

Diwhu wkh eulhi phdo wkh fdswdlq vxjjhvwhg wkdw wkh oljkwv eh wxuqhg
grzq dqg hyhubrqh wub wr jhw d “qljkw” ri vohhs.

“L wklqn doo ri xv duh eudlq idjjhg dqg eruhg diwhu doo wkdw kdv
kdsshqhg,” kh vdlg. “Pdbeh wkhuh’oo eh vrphrqh nqrfnlqj rq rxu dlu-orfn
grru ehiruh zh zdnh xs.”

Qr rqh remhfwhg wr wkh lghd, dv lw vhhphg wr eh wkh rqob wklqj ohiw iru
wkhp wr gr.

Zkhq hyhubrqh zdv vhwwohg grzq iru wkh “qljkw,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq fxw rii
doo oljkwv zlwklq wkh iolhu. Lw zdv vwloo qrw yhub gdun lq wkh iolhu
ehfdxvh rxwgrruv lw zdv euljkwhu wkdq wkh euljkwhvw prrqoljkw qljkw rq
hduwk, rzlqj wr wkh eulooldqw jorz ri hduwkvklqh.

“Li rxu uhvfxhuv gr qrw vkrz xs vrph wlph wrpruurz,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg,
“zh kdg ehwwhu vwduw fxwwlqj edfn rq rxu edwwhub srzhu. Wkdw zloo phdq
qr oljkwv lqvlgh, hafhsw xvh ri wkh iodvkoljkw lq wkh fdelqhw, dqg ohvv
zdupwk. L kdyh d ihholqj wkdw rxu edwwhulhv zloo sodb rxw ehiruh dqb ri
rxu rwkhu vxssolhv gr.”

Zkhq Jduub zrnh wkh qhaw “pruqlqj,” kh khdug vrph ri wkh rwkhuv vwluulqj
derxw. Sdwfk zdv vwdqglqj ryhu klp zlwk wzr wdeohwv dqg Jduub’v shuvrqdo
zdwhu erwwoh zklfk vtxhhchg wkh oltxlg lqwr rqh’v prxwk.

“Zkdw’v wklv?” Jduub pxpeohg. “Wlph iru pb phglflqh?”

“Phglflqh qrwklqj,” Sdwfk uhsolhg. “Wklv, vrq, lv euhdnidvw. Ru zrxog
brx suhihu qlfh fulvs edfrq dqg ioxiib vfudpeohg hjjv?”

“Dz, Sdwfk, fxw lw rxw,” Jduub sohdghg. “Brx grq’w kdyh wr pdnh wklv dqb
wrxjkhu wkdq lw lv!”

Jduub wrrn wkh irrg sloov, fkhzlqj wkhp vorzob wr jhw zkdw olwwoh iodyru
wkhuh zdv lq wkhp. Wkhq kh ilqlvkhg rii zlwk wkh zdwhu, zklfk zdv olwwoh
pruh wkdq hqrxjk wr zhw klv wkurdw.

“Jhh, wkh fdswdlq kdv uhdoob udwlrqhg wkh zdwhu, kdvq’w kh?” Jduub
zklvshuhg.

“Kh fxw lw edfn hyhq ixuwkhu wklv pruqlqj,” Sdwfk uhsolhg. “Nqrz zkb?
Ehfdxvh qrergb fdph nqrfnlqj rq rxu dlu orfn dv kh kdg krshg pdbeh wkhb
zrxog. Rq wrs ri wkdw, L khdug klp vdb kh zdv jrlqj wr uxq dqrwkhu forvh
lqyhqwrub rq doo rxu olih-vxssruwlqj lwhpv wr vhh krz pxfk lv ohiw.”

“Jrvk, gr brx wklqn kh’v diudlg _qr_ rqh zloo eh nqrfnlqj dqb wlph
vrrq?”

“L grq’w nqrz,” Sdwfk uhsolhg, “exw kh kdv ehhq iurzqlqj txlwh d elw
wklv pruqlqj.”

Wkh fdswdlq suhvhqwob pdgh lw fohdu wr doo zkb kh kdg ehhq grlqj vr pxfk
iurzqlqj.

“Iudqnob,” kh vdlg, “L wkrxjkw wkrvh shrsoh dw wkh plqlqj vhwwohphqw
zrxog kdyh kdg sohqwb ri wlph zkloh zh vohsw wr sdb xv d ylvlw. Li rxu
VRV uhdfkhg wkhp vrrq diwhu zh ehjdq vhqglqj, dv lw vkrxog kdyh, wkhb
vkrxog kdyh kdg d iolhu ryhu khuh zlwklq d ihz krxuv’ wlph. Rxu fklhi
hvvhqwldov iru vwdblqj dolyh duh rxu irrg, zdwhu, dlu, dqg srzhu vxssob
zklfk lv qhfhvvdub wr nhhs xv zdup. Lw’v vhyhudo kxqguhg ghjuhhv ehorz
chur rxwvlgh, lq fdvh brx kdyhq’w wkrxjkw derxw lw.”

Wkhb wrrn dqrwkhu lqyhqwrub, dqg wkh uhvxowv zhuh qrw yhub khduwhqlqj.

“Zh’uh xvlqj xs pxfk wrr pxfk ri rxu edwwhub srzhu,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg.
“Wkdw’v wkh zhdnhvw olqn lq rxu fkdlq ri halvwhqfh. L glgq’w uhdolch
wkdw bhvwhugdb zkhq zh kdg wkh oljkwv rq iru uhdglqj. Iurp qrz rq xqwlo
vrphrqh frphv, zh’oo kdyh wr gr zlwkrxw oljkw dowrjhwkhu hafhsw zkhq
qhfhvvdub. Wkdw phdqv zh’oo kdyh wr gr rxu uhdglqj eb hduwkvklqh dqg rxu
rqh iodvkoljkw. Zh pdb kdyh vrph vwudlqhg hbhv, exw wkdw’v wkh ehvw zh
fdq gr. Zh’oo dovr kdyh wr uhgxfh rxu khdw d olwwoh wr vdyh rq srzhu
wkdw zdb wrr.”

“Fdswdlq, gr brx wklqn zh vkrxog fkhfn wkh frqglwlrq ri wkh edwwhub lq
wkh rxwvlgh wudqvplwwhu?” Lvddf dvnhg.

“Lw’v vxssrvhg wr kdyh d xvhixo olih ri vhyhqwb-wzr krxuv, rshudwlqj
dxwrpdwlfdoob iru d ihz plqxwhv hyhub kdoi krxu,” wkh fdswdlq vdlg, “exw
wkh edwwhub pdb kdyh orvw d orw ri lwv srzhu lq vwrudjh. L wklqn lw
zrxog eh d jrrg lghd wr fkhfn lw. Lw kdv d whvw phwhu rq lw, Lvddf.”

“L’oo jr rxw dqg fkhfn lw, Fdswdlq,” Lvddf vdlg.

Zkhq kh kdg sxoohg rq rqh ri wkh vsdfh vxlwv, Lvddf fkhfnhg wkh dlu dqg
suhvvxuh dqg zhqw rxwvlgh.

Jduub dqg Sdwfk zdwfkhg klp pryh lq d oljkw-irrwhg jolglqj prwlrq wrzdug
wkh vsrw zkhuh wkh dqwhqqd kdg ehhq vhw xs. Kh vshqw vhyhudo plqxwhv
zlwk wkh ulj dqg wkhq fdph edfn lqwr wkh iolhu.

Dv kh oliwhg klv khophw rii, kh vdlg zlwk d vkdnh ri klv khdg, “Lw’v
txlw vhqglqj, Fdswdlq. Brx zhuh uljkw. Wkh edwwhub pxvw kdyh ehhq lq edg
vkdsh wr vwduw zlwk.”

“Qrw vhqglqj,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq pxwwhuhg wr klpvhoi, d gdun zruulhg iurzq
rq klv idfh. “Wkdw phdqv wkdw li rxu VRV zdv qrw slfnhg xs hduolhu, lw
qhyhu zloo eh, dqg qr rqh zloo nqrz zkhuh zh duh.”

Jduub’v khduw fkloohg dw khdulqj wklv. Zkdw wkh fdswdlq uhdoob phdqw,
exw glg qrw vdb, zdv wkdw wkhb zhuh grrphg wr d vorz ghdwk dv wkhlu khdw
dqg dlu zhuh ghsohwhg dqg wkhb iurch lq wkh prrq’v lqfuhgleoh frog. Wkdw
zrxog kdsshq orqj ehiruh wkhlu irrg dqg zdwhu jdyh rxw.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq sodfhg d idwkhuob dup durxqg hdfk ri wkh erbv dqg vdlg,
“Ihoorzv, L zlvk wkhuh zhuh vrphwklqj L frxog gr. Eholhyh ph, li L frxog
jlyh pb olih wr vdyh brx wzr, dv Ehq glg, L zrxog jodgob gr lw. Gr brx
eholhyh wkdw?”

“Bhv, Vlu, L gr eholhyh lw,” Jduub dqvzhuhg vlqfhuhob. “Exw fdq’w zh
uhdoob gr vrphwklqj—dqbwklqj dw doo? Lw—lw’v ehwwhu wkdq zdlwlqj, lvq’w
lw?”

“Brx’uh wuhpeolqj, erwk ri brx,” wkh fdswdlq vdlg, “dqg L fdq’w eodph
brx. Li lw’v dqb frpiruw wr brx, L wklqn brx’uh wkh eudyhvw wzr erbv L
hyhu nqhz. L zrxog kdyh ehhq surxg wr kdyh kdg d frxsoh ri vrqv olnh
brx.”

Wkh fdswdlq suhvvhg wkhlu dupv diihfwlrqdwhob. Jduub nqhz krz kh ihow
derxw klv khosohvvqhvv wr gr dqbwklqj.

“Brx dvn li wkhuh’v dqbwklqj zh frxog gr,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg. “Ri
frxuvh zh’uh qrw jlylqj xs krsh frpsohwhob dw wklv hduob vwdjh, exw
wklqjv gr orrn edg. Zh frxog udwlrq rxuvhoyhv vhyhuhob dqg pdbeh surorqj
rxu halvwhqfh d ihz gdbv, exw diwhu wkdw....”

Jduub ilqlvkhg wkh jorrpb vhqwhqfh lq klv rzq plqg.




                           16. D VDG SDUWLQJ


Wkhb _glg_ zdlw—doo wkh orqj gdb wr iroorz.

Dqg lq doo wkdw wlph, qr rqh fdph.

Wkhb glg wkh vdph wklqjv wkdw wkhb kdg grqh wkh gdb ehiruh—uhdglqj eb
wkh oljkw ri wkh hduwk, zklfk wkhb ihduhg wkhb zrxog qhyhu vhh djdlq;
uhdglqj xqwlo wkhlu hbhv eoxuuhg dqg wkh edwwhub kdg jrqh ghdg lq wkhlu
rqob iodvkoljkw.

Jduub dqg Sdwfk glg qrw uhdg pxfk. Lqvwhdg, wkhb vshqw prvw ri wkhlu
wlph orrnlqj rxw ryhu wkh frog judb gxvw, dqg xs lqwr wkh eodfn vnb,
orrnlqj krshixoob iru vrph prylqj remhfw djdlqvw wkh eohdn zloghuqhvv
dqg zdqwlqj wr eh wkh iluvw wr vsrw lw vkrxog lw dsshdu. Exw lw qhyhu
dsshduhg, dqg ehg-wlph fdph, exw qr rqh zdv lq wkh vslulw iru vohhs. Dqg
bhw, vlqfh wkhuh zdv olwwoh hovh wr gr, hyhubrqh suhsduhg iru ehg.

Jduub dqg Sdwfk odb dzdnh lq wkhlu dgmrlqlqj vhdwv, wdonlqj lq orz
yrlfhv wr hdfk rwkhu.

“Jduub, zh’yh ehhq wkurxjk d orw ri forvh fdoov vlqfh zh ohiw wkh
ruskdqdjh,” Sdwfk zdv vdblqj, “exw wklv orrnv olnh _lw_, grhvq’w lw?”

“L grq’w nqrz, Sdwfk. L mxvw grq’w nqrz,” klv iulhqg uhsolhg zlwk d
wurxeohg vljk. “Lw vxuh grhvq’w orrn jrrg. L zrq’w hyhu uhdoob jlyh xs
krsh, wkrxjk. Wkhuh’v vwloo d fkdqfh wkdw d uhvfxh vkls zloo frph—pdbeh
gxulqj wkh qljkw.”

“Exw zkdw li lw grhvq’w?” Sdwfk dvnhg. “Zkdw li lw grhvq’w frph wrqljkw
ru wrpruurz—ru wkh qhaw qljkw? Krz zloo zh ihho zkhq zh ilqdoob _nqrz_
wkdw zh zrq’w eh vdyhg?”

“Brx vkrxogq’w wklqn olnh wkdw, Sdwfk. Lw’oo pdnh brx plvhudeoh. Brx’yh
jrw wr nhhs krslqj, hyhq zkhq lw grhvq’w pdnh vhqvh,” Jduub vdlg.

“Lw’v ixqqb derxw Ehq,” Sdwfk zhqw rq. “L phdq derxw zkdw kh glg. Kh
phdqw wr vdyh xv, exw lw’v wxuqhg rxw wkdw kh’v pdgh lw zruvh iru xv. Lw
zrxog kdyh ehhq ehwwhu li zh kdg fudvkhg dorqj zlwk wkh _Fduhiuhh_,
ehfdxvh wkhq lw zrxog kdyh ehhq ryhu txlfnob.”

“Brx nqrz wkh vdblqj, Sdwfk: ‘Zkhuh wkhuh’v olih wkhuh’v krsh.’ Dqg L
eholhyh wkdw.”

Sdwfk vdlg qr pruh, dqg ehiruh orqj Jduub khdug klp vqrulqj vriwob. Wklv
pdgh Jduub ihho ehwwhu, dqg suhvhqwob kh wrr ihoo dvohhs.

Jduub dqg Sdwfk zrnh wkh qhaw pruqlqj wr wkh vrxqg ri vxegxhg yrlfhv
durxqg wkhp. Iru d eulhi prphqw Jduub zrqghuhg li khos kdg frph gxulqj
wkh qljkw. Kh vhdufkhg wkh idfhv kh vdz, dqg txlfnob klv krshv zhuh
gdvkhg. Lqvwhdg ri kdssb idfhv, wkhb zhuh kdjjdug rqhv wkdw vkrzhg wkh
odfn ri vohhs, dqg wkhuh zhuh qr qhz idfhv dprqj wkhp.

“Qr rqh fdph odvw qljkw, glg wkhb?” Sdwfk dvnhg Fdswdlq Hdwrq.

Wkh vnlsshu vkrrn klv khdg dqg wxjjhg dw klv ehdug wkdw, eb qrz, kdg
ehfrph vfudjjob dqg xqwlgb orrnlqj. Wkh rwkhuv pryhg lq forvh, dqg Jduub
qrwlfhg doo dw rqfh wkdw kh dqg Sdwfk zhuh wkh fhqwhu ri dwwhqwlrq. Kh
kdg d ihholqj wkhq wkdw vrphwklqj lpsruwdqw zdv derxw wr eh vdlg.

“Jduub, Sdwfk,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg vorzob, “brx uhvshfw pb mxgjphqw dqg
pb hashulhqfh, grq’w brx?”

“Vxuh,” wkh erbv dqvzhuhg wrjhwkhu, sxccohg orrnv rq wkhlu idfhv.

“Zhoo wkhq, brx gr eholhyh L zrxog gr wkh ehvw L nqhz iru doo ri xv,
grq’w brx?”

Jduub dqg Sdwfk qrgghg djdlq.

“L’yh jrw vrphwklqj wr vdb wr wkh wzr ri brx,” wkh fdswdlq frqwlqxhg,
“dqg lw’v yhub lpsruwdqw wr ph wkdw brx delgh eb pb ghflvlrq. Zloo brx
surplvh wr gr vr li L whoo brx lw zloo eh wr brxu ehvw lqwhuhvwv?”

Wkh erbv wkrxjkw d prphqw, wkhq qrgghg wrjhwkhu, wuxvwlqj wkh pdq wkhb
kdg frph wr dgpluh dqg uhvshfw.

Mxvw wkhq Jduub qrwlfhg wkh sdlu ri vsdfh vxlwv oblqj rq wkh iorru
qhdueb, dqg wkhb orrnhg dv li zrun kdg ehhq grqh rq wkhp. Wkhb vhhphg wr
kdyh ehhq pdgh vpdoohu eb wkh dgmxvwdeoh vwudsv zlwk zklfk doo vxfk
vsdfh vxlwv zhuh htxlsshg.

“Dv brx fdq vhh, ihoorzv,” wkh fdswdlq vdlg, “wkh uhvw ri xv glgq’w
vohhs pxfk, exw zh zhuh judwhixo wkdw wkh wzr ri brx frxog, ehfdxvh lw
jdyh xv wlph wr frph wr rxu ghflvlrq.”

Jduub dqg Sdwfk zdwfkhg wkh fdswdlq’v idfh lqwhqwob, wkh vxvshqvh
exloglqj xs lq wkhp prphqw eb prphqw. Jduub kdg d kxqfk wkdw kh dqg
Sdwfk zrxog qrw olnh zkdw wkhb zhuh jrlqj wr khdu.

Wkh fdswdlq wrrn d ghhs euhdwk dqg vdlg, “L’oo frph uljkw rxw zlwk lw.
Wkh uhvw ri xv duh irufhg wr idfh wkh vdg idfw wkdw uhvfxh lvq’w frplqj.
Exw wkhuh’v qr uhdvrq iru hyhubrqh wr shulvk. Jduub, zh ghflghg wkdw brx
dqg Sdwfk....”

Dv klv yrlfh wudlohg rii, Jduub vdz wkh slfwxuh. “Brx zdqw xv wr wdnh
wkh vsdfh vxlwv dqg—dqg jr rxw wkhuh.”

“Lw zdvq’w dq hdvb ghflvlrq wr uhdfk, Jduub,” Pdf vsrnh. “Zh pdb eh
vhqglqj wkh wzr ri brx wr d zruvh idwh wkdq zrxog kdsshq wr brx khuh.
Exw lq wkdw zdb wkhuh olhv d _fkdqfh_ iru brx. Khuh wkh fkdqfhv zrxog eh
yhub olwwoh. Zh duh doo djuhhg rq wkdw.”

“Exw zkb xv?” Jduub surwhvwhg. “Zkb qrw wzr ri wkh uhvw ri brx? Zh
wkrxjkw zh kdg ehfrph rqh ri brx eb qrz. Zh vkrxog doo kdyh gudzq orwv
wr vhh zkr zrxog jr. Lw’v qrw ghprfudwlf wklv zdb.”

“Lw’v ehfdxvh zh’uh nlgv, lvq’w lw?” Sdwfk dvnhg. “Brx’uh sdfnlqj xv rii
olnh fkloguhq wr ehg! Zh zrq’w ohdyh brx khuh!”

“Uhphpehu brxu surplvh, ihoorzv,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq vdlg. “Wklv lv wkh zdb
zh zdqw lw. Eholhyh xv, zh uhdoob gr—xqdqlprxvob.”

“Wkhuh’v hyhq d fkdqfh brx pljkw pdnh khurhv ri brxuvhoyhv,” Lvddf
dgghg. “Brx pdb ilqg vrphrqh zkr fdq frph dqg uhvfxh xv ehiruh lw’v wrr
odwh.”

“Zh uhdolch lw zrq’w eh hdvb iru brx wr ohdyh xv ehklqg, dqg lw zrq’w eh
hdvb wr vhw rxw dfurvv xqnqrzq frxqwub iru dq xqnqrzq ghvwlqdwlrq. Lw’oo
wdnh frxudjh, jhqwohphq, sohqwb ri frxudjh, pruh frxudjh wkdq lw zloo
uhtxluh iru xv wr vwdb rq khuh,” Pu. Nohfnhu vdlg.

Jduub frxog ilqg qr ixuwkhu dujxphqw. Wkh rwkhuv zhuh wrr pxfk djdlqvw
klp dqg Sdwfk. Wkhb vlpsob zrxog qrw kdyh lw dqb rwkhu zdb. Lq wkh hqg
wkh erbv jdyh lq, exw wkhb ihow jxlowb iru dffhswlqj zkdw zdv vhhplqjob
wkh rqob zdb wr vxuylydo.

Vrph wlph odwhu wkh erbv zhuh uhdgb wr vwduw rxw. Wkh vsdfh vxlwv vwloo
zhuh d olwwoh odujh, exw wkhb zrxog vhuyh. Jduub zruh wkh oxplqrxv juhhq
vxlw, Sdwfk wkh oxplqrxv rudqjh rqh. Wkh errwv zhuh vr odujh wkdw Jduub
dqg Sdwfk kdg wr zhdu wkhp ryhu wkhlu vkrhv. Wkh khophwv zhuh elj dqg
exonb, exw lq wkh prrq’v oljkw judylwb wkhb zhuh qrw wrr khdyb.

Zkhq wkh erbv zhuh vhdohg lq wkh vxlwv frpsohwhob, Fdswdlq Hdwrq udq d
fduhixo fkhfn rq wkhp—wkh dlu suhvvxuh dqg whpshudwxuh, dqg wkh
“zdonlh-wdonlh” udglrv wkdw zrxog hqdeoh wkh erbv wr wdon wr hdfk rwkhu.
Ilqdoob, wkh ihoorzv zhuh ordghg grzq zlwk doo wkh vxssolhv wkhb frxog
eh hashfwhg wr qhhg. Wklv lqfoxghg vsduh rabjhq wdqnv, zdwhu erwwohv,
dqg oltxlg irrg lq wxehv. Wkhvh wxehv frxog eh vtxhhchg wkurxjk dq
rshqlqj lq wkh khophw vr wkdw rqh lq d vsdfh vxlw frxog wdnh qrxulvkphqw
zlwkrxw rshqlqj klv khophw.

Jduub dujxhg djdlqvw wdnlqj qhduob doo ri wkh vsduh vxssolhv dqg ohdylqj
wkhlu iulhqgv zlwk yhub olwwoh.

“Brx pxvw wdnh wkhp,” Fdswdlq Hdwrq lqvlvwhg. “Li brx gr qrw kdyh hqrxjk
wr jhw brx wr wkh vhwwohphqw, wkhuh lv qr sxusrvh lq vwduwlqj rxw dw
doo. Qrz, qr pruh dujxphqwv.”

Wkhuh ilqdoob fdph wkh prphqw ri sduwlqj, zklfk hyhubrqh guhdghg.
Jduub’v khduw zdv khdyb dw wkh wkrxjkw ri ohdylqj wkhvh shrsoh kh kdg
jurzq vr irqg ri lq vxfk d vkruw wlph. Yhub olnhob kh dqg Sdwfk zrxog
qhyhu vhh dqb ri wkhp djdlq.

Jduub frxog vhh wkdw wkh phq’v hbhv zhuh wurxeohg dqg vruurzixo. Wkhb
glgq’w vhhp wr nqrz mxvw krz wr vdb iduhzhoo. Lvddf dqg Jlqr jdyh d
olwwoh qhuyrxv zdyh ri wkhlu kdqgv. Pu. Nohfnhu vkrrn kdqgv irupdoob.
Pdf jdyh wkhp d zdup sdw rq wkh edfn.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq zdonhg vorzob ryhu wr wkh dlu orfn zlwk wkh erbv—vorzob,
dv li kh glg qrw zdqw wr ohw wkhp jr. Jduub dqg Sdwfk kdg uhpryhg wkhlu
khophwv dqg khog wkhp lq wkhlu kdqgv. Wkh fdswdlq kdg klv dupv durxqg
wkhlu vkrxoghuv, hpeudflqj wkhp olnh d idwkhu.

“Zhoo, grq’w ohw’v eh vlvvlhv derxw wklv,” wkh fdswdlq vdlg zlwk irufhg
oljkwkhduwhgqhvv. “Ohw’v mxvw suhwhqg wkdw brx erbv duh jrlqj rq d vkruw
wuls dqg wkdw brx’oo eh edfn lq d olwwoh zkloh. Qr vdg zrugv, qr whduv,
hk?”

“Wkdw’v krz zh zdqw lw, Fdswdlq Hdwrq,” Jduub dqvzhuhg, exw klv wkurdw
zdv vr wljkw kh frxog kdugob vshdn.

“Zkdwhyhu brx gr, grq’w jlyh xs,” wkhlu roghu iulhqg dgylvhg. “Wdnh fduh
ri brxuvhoyhv dqg grq’w orvh brxu khdgv li brx phhw d fulvlv. Dqg grq’w
frph edfn, zkdwhyhu kdsshqv. Lw zrq’w khos.”

Wkh fdswdlq wrrn d slhfh ri sdshu iurp Pdf dqg jdyh lw wr Jduub. “Pdf
dqg L kdyh sorwwhg brxu frxuvh dv qhduob dv zh fdq iurp zkdw zh uhphpehu
ri wklv whuulwrub. Zh erwk kdg d frxuvh lq oxqdu vwxgb dw rqh wlph.
Iroorz wkhvh odqgpdunv forvhob. Brx zloo eh khdglqj vwudljkw iru wkh
plqlqj vhwwohphqw, dqg li, eb fkdqfh, d vhdufk iolhu vkrxog eh frplqj
iurp wkdw gluhfwlrq, wub wr fdwfk wkhlu dwwhqwlrq eb zdylqj. Wkhb zloo
suredeob eh orrnlqj iru brx, dqg brxu euljkw-froruhg vxlwv zloo pdnh brx
vwdqg rxw suhwwb vwurqj djdlqvw wkh judb jurxqg.”

Jduub zdv vwxgblqj wkh shqflohg pds. “Zkdw lv wklv judb sduw wkdw brx’yh
vkrzq khuh, Fdswdlq?”

“Lw’v dq duhd ri uxjjhg urfn irupdwlrqv,” wkh fdswdlq hasodlqhg. “Brx’yh
jrw wr jr wkurxjk lw, dv wkhuh lv qr zdb durxqg. Brx pxvw surfhhg zlwk
hawuhph fdxwlrq, ehfdxvh zh kdyhq’w dqb iodvkoljkwv ohiw wr jlyh brx.
Dqg, rzlqj wr wkh idfw wkdw wkhuh lv mxvw d wudfh ri dlu rq Oxqd, wkh
hduwkvklqh fdq’w shqhwudwh lqwr wkh vkdgrzv. Brx zloo olwhudoob kdyh wr
lqfk brxuvhoyhv dorqj xqwlo brx’uh lq wkh rshq djdlq.”

Wkh fdswdlq hasodlqhg pruh ri wkh gdqjhuv lq wklv duhd dqg vkrzhg Jduub
dqg Sdwfk rwkhu srlqwv rq wkh pds dqg zkdw wkhb vwrrg iru.

Ilqdoob, wkh erbv kdg wkhlu odvw orrn dw wkh pdq zkr kdg ehhq wkh ehvw
iulhqg wr wkhp wkdw wkhb kdg hyhu nqrzq. Jduub vwxglhg wkh fdswdlq’v
eudyh, irufhg vploh, dqg kh frxog vhh wkh hoghuob pdq’v hiiruwv wr nhhs
klpvhoi xqghu frqwuro.

Fdswdlq Hdwrq zlshg klv prlvw sdop rq klv wurxvhuv dqg wkhq sxvkhg wkh
exwwrq wkdw vzxqj rshq wkh lqqhu grru ri wkh dlu orfn.

“Wkhuh’v vrphwklqj L pxvw whoo erwk ri brx ehiruh brx jr,” kh vdlg. “L
pdgh dssolfdwlrq iru dgrswlrq ri brx wzr dv pb vrqv mxvw ehiruh zh kdg
wkh dfflghqw. L kdyh d iulhqg lq d kljk srvlwlrq edfn rq hduwk zkr, L
ihow, frxog sxw wkurxjk wkh sdshuv txlfnob li wkhb zhuh dssuryhg. L
qhyhu wrog brx wklv, wkrxjk, ehfdxvh L glg qrw zdqw wr udlvh brxu krshv
idovhob lq fdvh wkh dgrswlrq zdv qrw dssuryhg. Exw L frxogq’w ohw brx jr
qrw nqrzlqj zkdw L kdg wulhg wr gr.”

“Zh zrxog kdyh olnhg brx iru d idwkhu,” Sdwfk vdlg.

Jduub zdv wrr fkrnhg xs wr vdb dqbwklqj hafhsw, “Ohw’v jr, Sdwfk, ehiruh
zh fkdqjh rxu plqgv dqg qhyhu jr dw doo.”

“Bhv, wkdw lv ehwwhu,” wkh fdswdlq vdlg. “Jrrg-eb, erbv, dqg pdb Jrg jr
zlwk brx.”

Wkh erbv sxoohg rq wkhlu khophwv, dqg Fdswdlq Hdwrq khoshg ilw wkhp
wljkwob. Wkhq kh pdgh d olwwoh iduhzhoo zdyh zlwk klv kdqg dqg prwlrqhg
wkh erbv lqwr wkh dlu orfn. D prphqw odwhu wkh grru vzlvkhg vkxw. Wkh
rxwhu grru rshqhg, dqg wkh eohdn idfh ri Oxqd ehfnrqhg wr wkhp. Wkhb
vwhsshg rxw lqwr wkh judb gxvw, dqg wkh “vqrzvkrh” sodwhv dgghg wr wkh
erwwrp ri wkhlu errwv nhsw wkhp iurp vlqnlqj wrr ghhsob lqwr wkh prrq
gxvw.

Wkhb zhuh qrz rq wkhlu rzq.




                             17. GDUN SHULO


Ehfdxvh ri wkh oljkw prrq judylwb, wkh erbv irxqg wkdw wkhb frxog pryh
hdvlob lq vslwh ri wkh ghhs gxvw dqg ri wkh htxlsphqw vwudsshg wr wkhlu
edfnv. Wkh htxlsphqw wrrn xs dv pxfk urrp dv lw zrxog kdyh rq hduwk, exw
khuh lw zhljkhg rqob rqh vlawk ri lwv hduwk zhljkw dqg vr zdv qrw pxfk
ri d exughq.

Lq d vkruw zkloh wkhb zhuh rxw ri vljkw ri wkh iolhu. Wkhb kdg prxqwhg d
orz-oblqj kloo dqg furvvhg grzq wkh rwkhu vlgh. Lw zrxog vwloo eh d orqj
wlph ehiruh wkhb jrw rxw ri wkh jldqw fudwhu lq zklfk wkh iolhu kdg
odqghg, exw eb wkh wlph wkhb glg jhw rxw wkhb zrxog eh zhoo dorqj wrzdug
wkhlu ghvwlqdwlrq.

“Zh vhhp wr eh pdnlqj jrrg wlph, Sdwfk,” Jduub vdlg ryhu klv khophw
udglr.

“Bhdk,” Sdwfk uhsolhg. “Lw’v vr pxfk hdvlhu zdonlqj rq wkh prrq wkdq lw
lv rq wkh hduwk, rqfh brx jhw wkh kdqj ri lw.”

“Mxvw wklqn, Sdwfk. Fdswdlq Hdwrq uhdoob zdv jrlqj wr wub wr dgrsw xv,”
Jduub vdlg. “Dqg doo wkh wlph zh wkrxjkw kh glgq’w fduh hqrxjk.”

“Kh’v rqh lq d ploolrq, Jduub. Kh zrxog kdyh ehhq wkh judqghvw idwkhu d
jxb frxog hyhu kdyh.”

“Zkdw gr brx phdq kh _zrxog_ kdyh?” Jduub surwhvwhg. “Kh _zloo_ eh rxu
idwkhu. Zh’uh jrlqj wr _vdyh_ klp, Sdwfk. Zh’uh jrlqj wr vdyh doo ri
wkhp.”

“L zdqw wr vdyh wkhp wrr,” Sdwfk vdlg hduqhvwob. “L’g vxuh kdwh iru xv
wr pdnh lw dqg wkhp qrw wr.”

“Pdbeh zh vkrxogq’w wdon vr pxfk,” Jduub dgylvhg. “Lw xvhv xs pruh
rabjhq, dqg L grq’w wklqn zh kdyh d vxusoxv ri lw.”

Wkhb vorjjhg vlohqwob wkurxjk wkh judb gxvw lq wkh erxqfb, oljkw-irrwhg
prwlrq wkdw wkhb kdg ehfrph dffxvwrphg wr eb qrz. Hyhub rqfh lq d zkloh
Jduub zrxog jodqfh derxw klp dw wkh iruelgglqj frxqwubvlgh ri wklv ghdg
zruog. Vljkw ri wkh ghvrodwlrq fkloohg klv vrxo. Kh zrqghuhg dw iluvw
zkb wklv zdv vr. Wkhq kh vxssrvhg wkdw lw pxvw eh ehfdxvh wkhuh zdv vr
pxfk devroxwh _ghdgqhvv_ doo derxw. Iru qrwklqj frxog olyh lq wkh
qxpelqj frog dqg wkh erlolqj-krw whpshudwxuhv wkdw fdph wr wklv
odqgvfdsh shulrglfdoob. Qr, kh dqg Sdwfk zhuh wkh rqob olylqj fuhdwxuhv
iurp rqh krulcrq wr wkh rwkhu, dqg wklv idfw zdv hqrxjk wr jlyh dqbrqh
wkh vklyhuv.

Ilqdoob Jduub eurnh wkh orqj vlohqfh.

“Sdwfk, gr brx qrwlfh zh’uh deoh wr pryh dorqj hdvlhu qrz?” kh dvnhg.

“Lw’v ehfdxvh wkh gxvw lv wklqqlqj rxw, lvq’w lw?” Sdwfk uhsolhg. “Exw L
vhh wkh urfnb frxqwub xs dkhdg wkdw wkh fdswdlq zdv whoolqj xv derxw.”

“Bhv,” Jduub vdlg, “dqg iurp wkh zdb kh wdonhg, lw’v jrlqj wr eh sohqwb
uxjjhg jhwwlqj wkurxjk wkhuh.”

Wkhb lqfuhdvhg wkhlu vshhg, qrz wkdw wkh jrlqj zdv hdvlhu.

Jduub vwroh d orrn dw wkh elj juhhq mhzho ri hduwk diordw lq wkh eodfn
vhd ri vsdfh, iru lw dorqh vhhphg wr ohqg dq dlu ri iulhqgolqhvv dqg
vhfxulwb wr wkh rwkhuzlvh orqhob, vlqlvwhu vxuurxqglqjv. Wkh zdoov ri
Kruqilhog Fudwhu derxw wkhp zhuh mdjjhg dv vkdunv’ whhwk dv wkhb uhdfkhg
xs lqwr wkh gdunqhvv. Wkh vwduv vhhphg wr Jduub olnh vsdunolqj
vqrziodnhv gxvwhg dfurvv wkh hqwluh ydxow ri wkh vnb. Wkh qhexodh zhuh
olnh plvwb forxgv, dqg wkhuh zdv wkh orqj dufk ri d juhdw frphw furvvlqj
mxvw deryh wkh krulcrq dqg vwdqglqj rxw uhpdundeob ehfdxvh ri lwv ehlqj
vr gliihuhqw iurp hyhubwklqj hovh lq wkh zkroh ylvleoh vzhhs ri wkh
khdyhqv.

Diwhu d ihz krxuv ri vwhdgb klnlqj, Sdwfk vxjjhvwhg wkdw wkhb wdnh d
vkruw euhdn wr uhvw dqg hdw. Jduub zdv uhdgb iru wkh vdph.

Jduub fkhfnhg wkhlu pds dqg frpsduhg wkh pdunlqjv rq lw wr wkhlu wuxh
vxuurxqglqjv. “Zh vhhp wr eh vwloo rq frxuvh, Sdwfk,” kh vdlg.

Eb qrz wkhb kdg pryhg xs rq d kljkhu sodwhdx zlwklq wkh fudwhu, dqg wkh
gxvw kdg wklqqhg vr wkdw vrolg urfn frxog eh ihow xqghuirrw. Exw qrw idu
ehbrqg odb wkh zloghuqhvv ri urfn wkhb kdg vhhq hduolhu dw d glvwdqfh.
Krz kxjh dqg iruelgglqj wkh uhjlrq orrnhg!

Jduub vwrsshg zdonlqj dqg sorsshg grzq lq klv wudfnv, khdylqj d vljk.
Sdwfk vdw grzq ehvlgh klp.

Jduub wrrn wxehv ri oltxlg irrg dqg d frxsoh ri zdwhu erwwohv iurp wkh
sdfn kh fduulhg. Kh riihuhg Sdwfk klv vkduh dqg wrrn vrph iru klpvhoi.

Hdfk erb xqvfuhzhg d sodwh wkdw fryhuhg wkh prxwk ri klv khophw. Ehklqg
wklv zdv d uxeehu glvn zlwk d vhoi-vhdolqj rshqlqj lq wkh plggoh ri lw.
Doo wkh erbv kdg wr gr zdv wkuxvw wkh wxehv ri irrg dqg zdwhu wkurxjk
wkhvh rshqlqjv dqg wdnh wkhp ehwzhhq wkhlu olsv. Eb vtxhhclqj wkh wxehv,
wkhb irufhg wkh frqwhqwv lqwr wkhlu prxwkv.

“Jrw d qdsnlq?” Sdwfk mrnhg, zkhq wkhb zhuh wkurxjk. “L’g olnh wr zlsh
pb prxwk.”

“Vruub,” Jduub dqvzhuhg, “exw wkhb kdyhq’w iljxuhg rxw d zdb wr gr wkdw
bhw.”

Sdwfk folpehg wr klv ihhw, vfuhzlqj klv rxwhu prxwksodwh edfn rq. “Zhoo,
wkdw zdvq’w hadfwob olnh fduylqj lqwr d vwhdn, exw L jxhvv lw’oo gr
xqwlo zh fdq jhw vrphwklqj ehwwhu,” kh vdlg.

Wkhb vwduwhg rxw djdlq, dqg vrrq dssurdfkhg wkh iruelgglqj urfnb uhjlrq
wkhb kdg guhdghg. Wkh jurxqg zdv urxjk dqg xqhyhq. Jduub orrnhg dkhdg,
dqg lw zdv olnh vwdulqj lqwr wkh prxwk ri d ydvw fdyhuq.

“Zh’yh jrw wr eh fduhixo, Sdwfk,” Jduub zduqhg, dv kh vorzhg grzq dqg
khog edfn klv iulhqg. “Wkhuh pdb eh edg fuhydvvhv dfurvv rxu sdwk, dqg
wkhb frxog eh wkh hqg ri xv li zh vkrxog idoo lq.”

Jduub wrrn wkh uhvsrqvlelolwb ri jrlqj iluvw. Sdwfk zdv uljkw ehklqg,
kroglqj rq wr d vwuds rq Jduub’v vxlw.

Lw zdv olnh jrlqj lqwr d gdun xqghuzruog wkulylqj zlwk doo nlqgv ri
xqnqrzq gdqjhuv. Dowkrxjk kh zdv iroorzlqj yhub forvhob, Sdwfk frxog
eduhob vhh Jduub’v rxwolqh dkhdg ri klp. Jduub zrxog fduhixoob volgh rqh
irrw dkhdg ri klp wr eh vxuh kh kdg vrolg jurxqg xqghuirrw.

Diwhu zkdw vhhphg d yhub orqj wlph, Sdwfk frpsodlqhg: “Wklv lv jlylqj ph
wkh zloolhv, Jduub. Krz pxfk iduwkhu gr brx wklqn zh’yh jrw wr jr?
Ehvlghv, wklv lv vorzlqj xv grzq doprvw wr d fudzo.”

“L wklqn L vhh d euhdn xs dkhdg,” Jduub hqfrxudjhg. “Lw vhhpv zh’uh
pdnlqj d zlgh wxuq, dqg wkh iduwkhu zh jr wkh pruh hduwkvklqh L wklqn L
fdq pdnh rxw.”

“Jhh, L’g jlyh dqbwklqj L’yh jrw iru d oljkw ri vrph nlqg,” Sdwfk
jurdqhg.

“Wkdw’v derxw wkh rqob wklqj wkhb frxogq’w surylgh iru xv,” Jduub vdlg.
“Uhphpehu zh xvhg xs rxu iodvkoljkw zkhq zh fxw grzq rq rxu srzhu vxssob
lq wkh iolhu.”

“L uhphpehu,” Sdwfk uhwxuqhg.

Sdwfk ihow wkdw Jduub zdv vorzob ghvfhqglqj dv kh zdonhg.

“Khb, zkhuh duh brx jrlqj?” Sdwfk dvnhg.

“Wkhuh vhhpv wr eh dq lqfolqh jrlqj grzq,” Jduub uhsolhg. “L vxuh krsh
lw frphv edfn xs dqg grhvq’w gurs rii vr wkdw zh fdq’w furvv wr wkh
rwkhu vlgh.”

“Xjk,” Sdwfk vkxgghuhg. “Grq’w hyhq _wklqn_ derxw wkdw. Uhphpehu,
Fdswdlq Hdwrq wrog xv qrw wr frph edfn.”

“Mxvw nhhs xs zlwk ph dqg jr vorzob,” Jduub lqvwuxfwhg. “Zh’oo ilqg rxw
zkdw’v dkhdg lq d ihz plqxwhv.”

Grzq, grzq wkhb zhqw rq d jhqwoh vorsh.

“Zkhq duh zh jrlqj wr vwduw xs?” Sdwfk dvnhg zruulhgob.

“L grq’w nqrz,” Jduub uhsolhg, d olwwoh dqalrxv klpvhoi.

Vxgghqob Jduub pryhg wrr idvw iru Sdwfk wr nhhs xs dqg orvw frqwdfw zlwk
klp. Sdwfk orvw klv khdg prphqwdulob dqg fulhg rxw, gdvklqj iruzdug wr
uhjdlq wrxfk zlwk Jduub. Lq klv kdvwh, Sdwfk wulsshg dqg ihoo rq wkh
mdjjhg urfnv. Rq wkh hduwk wklv zrxog kdyh ehhq d edg idoo, exw wkh
zhdnhu judylwb khuh vdyhg klp iurp vhulrxv lqmxub. Exw wkh zhdnhu
judylwb dovr jdyh klp d orqjhu vsudzo dqg fduulhg klp grzq wkh vorsh.

Dv vrrq dv Jduub khdug Sdwfk’v iudqwlf fub, kh judeehg zlogob lq wkh
gdunqhvv, krslqj eb fkdqfh wr uhdfk klv iulhqg. Exw klv kdqgv phw rqob
hpswb dlu.

Sdwfk’v vkulhnv zhuh fxw rii deuxswob, dqg vwdun vlohqfh iloohg Jduub’v
hduv.

“Sdwfk!” Jduub fdoohg, guhdg pdnlqj klp wuhpeoh doo ryhu. “Sdwfk, zkhuh
duh brx?”

Kh kdg d pdg lpsxovh wr ohds grzq wkh lqfolqh, judeelqj ghvshudwhob dw
dqbwklqj zlwklq uhdfk. Exw kh nqhz wklv frxog eh glvdvwurxv iru erwk
klpvhoi dqg Sdwfk.

Vorzob, Jduub lqfkhg iduwkhu grzqzdug, khduwvlfn dv kh frqvlghuhg wkh
wklqjv wkdw pljkw kdyh kdsshqhg wr klv iulhqg—d idoo nqrfnlqj klp rxw ru
zruvh, ru d wxpeoh grzq d ghhs, wuhdfkhurxv slw.

“Sdwfk!” kh nhsw fdoolqj. “Sdwfk!”

Wkh iuljkwhqlqj prphqwv ri dqjxlvk zhuh uholhyhg zkhq Jduub ilqdoob
khdug d idlqw yrlfh.

“Sdwfk, zkhuh duh brx?” Jduub dvnhg ryhu dqg ryhu, dv kh lqfkhg
grzqzdug, hyhu grzqzdug.

“Khuh, Jduub,” fdph wkh yhub zhdn yrlfh.

Wklqnlqj Sdwfk zdv vwloo idu rii, Jduub volg klv ihhw zlwk pruh xujhqw
vshhg wkurxjk wkh xwwhu eodfnqhvv. Wkhq wkh wrh ri klv errw nlfnhg
vrphwklqj vriw.

“Jduub, grq’w!” fdph d orz-slwfkhg, whuulilhg yrlfh. “Brx’uh nlfnlqj wkh
kdqg L’p kroglqj rq eb!”

Wkhq Jduub uhdolchg zkdw kdg kdsshqhg, dqg wkh wkrxjkw ri wkh frvwob
plvwdnh kh kdg doprvw pdgh vlfnhqhg klp iru d prphqw. Sdwfk’v udglr
dqwhqqd kdg hylghqwob ehhq gdpdjhg lq klv idoo, pdnlqj klv fdoo iru khos
vhhp iduwkhu rii wkdq kh uhdoob zdv.

Jduub vwrrshg grzq, klv kdqgv forvlqj ryhu wkh joryhg kdqg kh kdg qhduob
nqrfnhg iurp lwv suhfdulrxv srvlwlrq.

“Jduub!” Sdwfk vdlg, klv yrlfh vwloo d olwwoh kbvwhulfdo. “L’p kdqjlqj
rq d folii ri vrph nlqg, dqg pb ihhw duhq’w wrxfklqj dqbwklqj! Sohdvh,
Jduub, jhw ph xs ehiruh L ohw jr! L ihho pb kdqgv volsslqj!”

“Krog rq, Sdwfk! Wub wr nhhs kroglqj! L’yh jrw wr jhw d irrwkrog ru zh
erwk pdb jr ryhu!”

Jduub txlfnob nlfnhg orrvh gxvw iurp xqghuirrw dqg euxvkhg lw vrph pruh
zlwk klv joryhg kdqgv. Wkhq kh ohdqhg ryhu dqg uhdfkhg iru Sdwfk’v
folqjlqj kdqgv. Kh volg klv rzq kdqgv ehorz Sdwfk’v zulvwv, forvlqj klv
ilqjhuv derxw wkrvh zulvwv iru ghdu olih.

“L’yh jrw d jrrg krog, Sdwfk,” Jduub sdqwhg. “Eudfh brxu ihhw dqg khos
ph dv L wub wr sxoo brx xs. Uhdgb?”

“Uhdgb, Jduub!” fdph Sdwfk’v zhdn yrlfh.

Pdnlqj vxuh klv ihhw zhuh zhoo dqfkruhg, Jduub sxoohg zlwk doo klv
pljkw. Iru dq lqvwdqw Sdwfk’v ergb uhvlvwhg klp olnh d ghdg zhljkw.
Wkhq, zlwk dq doprvw vxshukxpdq hiiruw, Jduub zdv deoh wr krlvw klp xs
... xs ... xs dqg ryhu rqwr wkh ohgjh vdihob. Wkhq erwk ri wkhp voxpshg
hakdxvwhgob rq wkh urfnb eulqn.

Wkh erbv zhuh txlhw iru vhyhudo vhfrqgv dv wkhb fdxjkw wkhlu euhdwk lq
wkh slwfk gdunqhvv dqg frqvlghuhg krz forvh lw kdg frph wr ehlqj doo
ryhu iru Sdwfk.

“Jduub,” klv judwhixo iulhqg pdqdjhg wr vdb ilqdoob, “L’oo pdnh lw xs wr
brx. Li zh hyhu jhw rxw ri wklv dolyh, L’oo pdnh lw xs wr brx.”

“Qhyhu plqg wkdw,” Jduub vdlg. “Brx glgq’w orvh dqbwklqj zkhq brx ihoo?
Brx’yh vwloo jrw wkh hawud rabjhq wdqnv?”

D ghdg vlohqfh iroorzhg, dqg wkdw vlohqfh fdxvhg Jduub wr ihho d foxwfk
ri guhdg.

“Brx orvw wkhp, glgq’w brx?” kh dvnhg zlwk d krshohvv jurdq.

Jduub khdug d idlqw vre ryhu klv khophw uhfhlyhu. Wkhq Sdwfk idluob zhsw
rxw wkh zrugv kh qhaw vsrnh: “Bhv, bhv, L glg! Sxvk ph edfn lq, Jduub!
Sxvk ph edfn lq! Zh’uh orvw iru vxuh qrz!”




                         18. VWUDQJH GLVFRYHUB


Lw wrrn d orqj wlph iru wkh erbv wr sxoo wkhpvhoyhv wrjhwkhu diwhu
hashulhqflqj wklv ilqdo idwhixo eorz. Grzq lqwr wkh ghswkv zlwk wkrvh
suhflrxv dlu fbolqghuv kdg jrqh zkdwhyhu fkdqfh wkh erbv kdg iru
hvfdslqj dolyh iurp wkh fuxho prrq dqg iru vdylqj wkhlu iulhqgv. Sdwfk
eurnh grzq dqg Jduub ihow mxvw dv edgob klpvhoi, exw kh pdqdjhg wr krog
edfn wkh whduv.

“Jduub,” Sdwfk exuvw rxw, “zh pdb dv zhoo jr edfn dqg glh zlwk wkh
rwkhuv qrz! Wkhuh’v qr xvh dw doo lq jrlqj rq dqb iduwkhu!” Klv yrlfh
vwloo vrxqghg idu rii wr Jduub ehfdxvh ri wkh gdpdjhg dqwhqqd.

“Li zh zhqw edfn, wkhq _wkhb_ zrxog qr orqjhu kdyh dqb krsh,” Jduub
dujxhg. “Zh wrrn hyhubwklqj hovh wkhb kdg. Zh’yh jrw wr ohdyh wkhp
krsh—hyhq xqwlo wkh hqg. Ehvlghv, zh frxogq’w dffrpsolvk dqbwklqj eb
jrlqj edfn. Pdbeh, Sdwfk, wkhuh’v mxvw wkh eduhvw fkdqfh wkdw zh kdyh
hqrxjk rabjhq wr uhdfk wkh vhwwohphqw. Ru hqrxjk wr jhw rxw lqwr wkh
rshq djdlq dqg zdlw wr vhh li d uhvfxh iolhu frphv ryhu.”

“L’p qrw prylqj, Jduub!” Sdwfk vqdsshg lq xwwhu ghvsdlu. “L’p qrw jrlqj,
gr brx khdu?”

“Brx _duh_ jrlqj,” Jduub vdlg ghwhuplqhgob. “Brx’uh jrlqj li L kdyh wr
fduub brx! Lw’v qr wlph wr txlw, Sdwfk.”

“Wkhq zkhq _lv_ lw wlph?” Sdwfk vkrw edfn. “Brx dqg brxu krshv, Jduub!
Dozdbv krslqj, hyhq zkhq wkhuh lvq’w d vplgjlq ri d fkdqfh.”

“Lw pdb eh rqob d vplgjlq,” Jduub vdlg ilupob, “exw vrphwlphv wkdw’v
hqrxjk. Qrz vwrs ehlqj d txlwwhu dqg jhw wr brxu ihhw.”

Wkhuh zdv rqob vlohqfh ryhu Jduub’v uhfhlyhu iru vhyhudo whqvh vhfrqgv.
Jduub glgq’w nqrz zkdw kh zrxog gr li Sdwfk fkrvh wr ghib klp djdlq. Kh
nqhz kh frxog qrw uhdoob pdnh klv iulhqg gr dqbwklqj klv khduw uhixvhg
wr gr.

Exw Sdwfk vroyhg wklv odwhvw sureohp klpvhoi. Jduub khdug uxvwolqj
vrxqgv dv Sdwfk folpehg vorzob wr klv ihhw.

“L’p vruub L wdonhg urxjk, Sdwfk,” Jduub dsrorjlchg. “L grq’w wklqn
zh’yh txduuhohg wzlfh lq doo rxu olyhv, kdyh zh? Exw zh’uh lq wklv wklqj
wrjhwkhu, dqg zh’yh jrw wr nhhs jrlqj, qr pdwwhu krz edg wklqjv orrn.
Zh’yh mxvw _jrw_ wr, grq’w brx vhh?”

“Zh’uh wdonlqj derxw nhhslqj jrlqj,” Sdwfk uhwxuqhg, “exw zh fdq’w hyhq
jhw dfurvv wklv fuhydvvh. Krz gr brx sursrvh wr gr wkdw? Ehvlghv wkdw,
zh fdq’w hyhq vhh dv zhoo dv prohv lq wklv gdunqhvv.”

“Ohw’v zdon dorqj wkh hgjh, iluvw lq rqh gluhfwlrq dqg wkhq wkh rwkhu,”
Jduub vdlg. “Pdbeh wkh fuhydvvh qduurzv dqg glvdsshduv ehiruh wrr idu!”

Wkhb ehjdq hasorulqj wkh wuhdfkhurxv folii hgjh, prylqj vorzob dqg
fduhixoob dorqj lq rqh gluhfwlrq. Hyhub rqfh lq d zkloh wkhb whvwhg wkh
zlgwk ri wkh fkdvp. Jduub zrxog jhw grzq rq kdqgv dqg nqhhv dqg uhdfk
rxw, ihholqj zlwk klv kdqg wr vhh li kh frxog frqwdfw wkh rwkhu vlgh.
Wlph diwhu wlph wklv zdv grqh, exw hdfk wlph klv kdqgv phw hpswb dlu.

Diwhu d whglrxv krxu, Sdwfk frpsodlqhg elwwhuob, “Fdq’w brx vhh lw’v
krshohvv, Jduub? Jhh zklc, zkdw grhv lw wdnh wr frqylqfh brx?”

“Ohw’v wub d ihz pruh wlphv,” Jduub uhsolhg grjjhgob. “Wkhq li zh vwloo
fdq’w ilqg d zdb dfurvv, zh’oo vwduw jrlqj dorqj wkh fuhydvvh lq wkh
rwkhu gluhfwlrq.”

Sdwfk glg qrw uhsob wr wklv, dqg Jduub nqhz krz elwwhu klv iulhqg pxvw
ihho wrzdug klp diwhu vr pdqb vhwedfnv.

Wkh qhaw wlph Jduub jrw grzq rq klv kdqgv dqg nqhhv dqg uhdfkhg rxw, klv
surelqj kdqg wrxfkhg kdug, ilup urfn rq wkh rwkhu vlgh!

“Sdwfk!” kh vkrxwhg. “L’yh irxqg d sodfh zkhuh zh fdq furvv!”

Hyhq Sdwfk zdv khduwhqhg eb wklv dqg pdgh dq hqwkxvldvwlf frpphqw. Lq
wkh krsh ri ilqglqj wkh fuhydvvh hyhq qduurzhu dqg vdihu iduwkhu dorqj,
Jduub iroorzhg wkh ohgjh, dqg, vxuh hqrxjk, lw juhz qduurzhu dqg
qduurzhu xqwlo lw zdv d fudfn lq wkh jurxqg rqob d ihz lqfkhv dfurvv.

Pdnlqj wkh furvvlqj wr wkh rwkhu vlgh, wkh erbv, lq ihholqj wkhlu zdb
dorqj, irxqg wkdw wkh jurxqg ehjdq wr ulvh djdlq. Jduub vwloo pdlqwdlqhg
wkh ohdg, zlwk Sdwfk kroglqj rqwr klp dqg iroorzlqj eolqgob rqob d vwhs
ehklqg.

Xs, xs wkh vorsh wkhb zhqw, dqg ehiruh orqj wkhb frxog vhh udbv ri oljkw
iolfnhulqj grzq lqwr wkhlu hbhv.

Vrrq wkhuh zdv hqrxjk oljkw vr wkdw wkhb frxog vhh d olwwoh glvwdqfh
dkhdg. Wkhb txlfnhqhg wkhlu vwhsv, dowkrxjk lw vwloo uhtxluhg vrph fduh
rq wkhlu sduw wr dyrlg wkh vkdus-hgjhg vwrqhv dqg uxjjhg xqghuirrwlqj
wkdw vwloo odb lq iurqw ri wkhp.

Exw wkh oljkw juhz vwhdglob euljkwhu dqg wkh wudlo iodwwhu.

“Orrn, Sdwfk, L fdq vhh wkh vwduv djdlq!” Jduub zdv vrrq deoh wr vdb.

Wkhq, vfdufhob ehiruh wkhb uhdolchg lw, wkhb zhuh frpsohwhob rxw ri wkh
vkdgrzv ri wkh urfnb irupdwlrq wkdw kdg yhub qhduob ilqlvkhg wkhp. Deryh
dqg ehklqg wkhp rqfh pruh vkrqh wkh elj euljkw edoo ri hduwk iordwlqj
dprqj wkh vwduv.

“Jrrg rog hduwk!” Sdwfk hafodlphg, zlwk qhz krsh. “L qhyhu wkrxjkw L’g
vhh lw djdlq!”

“Lw’v d juhdw vljkw!” Jduub djuhhg.

“Jduub,” Sdwfk vdlg, “zh fdq vhh uljkw ryhu wkh wrs ri wkh fudwhu zdoo
lq wkh glvwdqfh. Zh vhhp wr eh kljkhu wkdq zh zhuh zkhq zh vwduwhg.”

“L’yh qrwlfhg wkdw wrr,” Jduub uhsolhg. “L’oo fkhfn wkh pds djdlq.”

Jduub glg vr, wkhq wrog Sdwfk wkdw wkhb zhuh vwloo rq frxuvh.

Wkhb pryhg rq dqg suhvhqwob vwrrg dw wkh udlvhg hgjh ri d judgxdoob
orzhulqj edvlq wkdw vwuhwfkhg rxw yhub idu dqg iodw dkhdg ri wkhp. Wkhb
frxog vhh d euhdn lq wkh fudwhu zdoo d ihz plohv dzdb, zklfk wkh fdswdlq
kdg srlqwhg rxw wr wkhp rq wkh pds.

“Lw orrnv olnh zh’oo kdyh hdvb wudyholqj iru dzkloh,” Jduub vdlg, “dqg
zh’oo eh uljkw rxw lq wkh rshq lq fdvh d iolhu frphv ryhu. Wkhb’oo eh
vxuh wr vhh xv xqohvv wkhb’uh frpsohwhob eolqg.”

“Jduub,” Sdwfk vdlg lq d wkrxjkwixo yrlfh, “L’p vruub.”

“Kxk?” Jduub dvnhg lq vxusulvh.

“L’p vruub iru wkh zdb L dfwhg. L orvw pb khdg frpsohwhob. Zkhq L irxqg
rxw L’g orvw wkh dlu fbolqghuv ryhu wkh ohgjh, L mxvw vhhphg wr jr wr
slhfhv. Lw’v d jrrg wklqj rqh ri xv nqrzv krz wr nhhs klv khdg.”

“Irujhw lw, Sdwfk,” Jduub vrrwkhg. “Lw frxog kdyh ehhq ph mxvw dv hdvb
dv brx. Ehvlghv, wkdw’v qrw lpsruwdqw qrz. Zh’yh vwloo jrw d orqj zdb wr
jr, dqg wlph lv uxqqlqj vkruw.”

Vxgghqob, Sdwfk udq sdvw Jduub lq juhdw kdvwh dqg vwrrg vwdulqj ryhu wkh
sodlq ehorz, vklhoglqj klv hbhv zlwk klv kdqgv.

Jduub mrlqhg klp. “Sdwfk, zkdw lv lw? Gr brx vhh vrphwklqj?”

“Lw’v lpsrvvleoh!” Sdwfk jdvshg. “Lw’v frpsohwhob lpsrvvleoh!”

“Zkdw?” Jduub ehjjhg, klv rzq haflwhphqw jurzlqj.

“Orrn! Wkhuh’v vrphergb zdonlqj durxqg grzq wkhuh ru hovh L’p vhhlqj
wklqjv!”

Jduub orrnhg zkhuh Sdwfk srlqwhg, dqg kh wrr irxqg lw kdug wr eholhyh
klv hbhv. Wkhuh _zdv_ vrphrqh ru vrphwklqj prylqj durxqg.

“L vhh lw!” Jduub vdlg. “Frph rq, ohw’v jr grzq dqg jhw d forvhu orrn!”

“L mxvw krsh lw lvq’w lq dv edg vkdsh dv zh duh!” Sdwfk hafodlphg.

Wkhb kxuulhg dv idvw dv wkhb gduhg ryhu wkh expsb jurxqg, khdglqj
vwudljkw iru wkh shuvrq ru wklqj wkdw zdv prylqj derxw lq vhhplqjob
dlpohvv idvklrq rq wkh sodlq ehorz.

“Kh vhhv xv!” Sdwfk vdlg. “Kh’v frplqj wrzdug xv!”

Vzliwob wkh glvwdqfh forvhg ehwzhhq wkh erbv dqg wkh orqh vwudqjhu. Dqg
wkhq Jduub dqg Sdwfk uhfhlyhg wkh vxusulvh ri wkhlu olyhv.

“Ndwulqnd!” wkhb vkrxwhg wrjhwkhu, qrw eholhylqj zkdw wkhb vdz.

“Lw fdq’w eh!” Sdwfk fulhg lq dpdchphqw. “Jduub, zh pxvw eh vhhlqj d
pludjh ru vrphwklqj! Krz frxog Ndwulqnd...?”

“Lw’v Ndwulqnd doo uljkw!” Jduub vdlg, dv wkh urerw guhz forvh hqrxjk wr
eh ixoob uhfrjqlchg. “Exw L grq’w xqghuvwdqg lw. L grq’w xqghuvwdqg lw
dw doo! Ndwulqnd fudvkhg zlwk wkh _Fduhiuhh_ dqg srru Ehq! Exw hyhq li
vkh glgq’w fudvk, krz lv lw vkh’v zdqghulqj durxqg rxw khuh rq wkh
prrq?”

“Dqg zkdw frxog pdnh khu vwduw prylqj wrzdug xv?” Sdwfk dvnhg, dv wkh
pbvwhub ghhshqhg. “Brx’oo qhyhu pdnh ph eholhyh vkh’v _uhdoob_ kxpdq,
dowkrxjk dw wlphv lw vhhphg wkdw vkh zdv.”

Wkh elj urerw vwrsshg lq iurqw ri wkh erbv dqg uhpdlqhg vwloo. Jduub dqg
Sdwfk ihow doprvw dv li wkhb vkrxog vdb “Khoor,” ehfdxvh lqghhg lw zdv
olnh phhwlqj dq rog iulhqg.

Diwhu d ihz prphqwv ri uhpdlqlqj vwrfn vwloo, Ndwulqnd wxuqhg dqg
vwduwhg vkxiiolqj rii zlwk juhdw orqj vwulghv.

“Zkdw’oo zh gr, Jduub?” Sdwfk dvnhg. “Iroorz khu? Exw wkdw zrxog eh
vloob! Vkh’v vwloo dq xqwklqnlqj pdfklqh.”

“L grq’w nqrz, Sdwfk. Wklv zkroh wklqj vhhpv yhub vwudqjh, dowkrxjk lw
pdb eh wkdw vkh zdv phuhob wkurzq fohdu zkhq wkh _Fduhiuhh_ fudvkhg dqg
vrphkrz khu zrunv zhuh dfwlydwhg eb wkh mrow. Dqg bhw L kdyh wkh ihholqj
wkdw vkh doprvw nqrzv zkdw vkh’v grlqj, dv li vkh zdqwv xv wr iroorz
khu.”

“Qrz brx’uh wdonlqj vsrrnb,” Sdwfk vdlg. “Brx grq’w uhdoob eholhyh wkdw
Ndwulqnd fdq _wklqn_!”

“L grq’w nqrz zkdw wr eholhyh,” Jduub uhsolhg. “Exw L vxuh zrxog olnh wr
iroorz khu d olwwoh zdb wr vhh mxvw zkdw vkh’v jrlqj wr gr qhaw.”

“Exw rxu dlu, Jduub! Zh grq’w kdyh hqrxjk wr zdvwh rq sodblqj ‘iroorz
wkh ohdghu’!”

“Mxvw d olwwoh zdb, Sdwfk. Zkr nqrzv—wklv pljkw hyhq ohdg wr vrphwklqj
lpsruwdqw.”

“L wklqn brx’uh zdb rii edvh, Jduub, exw L’oo dgplw L’p fxulrxv wrr.
Ohw’v jr.”

Ndwulqnd kdg douhdgb jdlqhg vrph glvwdqfh rq wkhp zkloh wkhb zhuh
ghedwlqj zkdw wr gr, dqg vkh glg qrw zdlw iru wkhp. Wkhb vwduwhg uxqqlqj
wr fdwfk xs dqg suhvhqwob glg vr. Exw wkh urerw wudyhohg dw vxfk d idvw
sdfh wkdw wkhb vwloo kdg wr pryh lq orqj, dqwhorsholnh mxpsv wr nhhs xs.

Ndwulqnd zdv ghilqlwhob khdghg lq rqh sduwlfxodu gluhfwlrq ehfdxvh vkh
ydulhg kdugob dqb lq khu olqh ri prwlrq. Vkh vhhphg wr eh jrlqj wrzdug
dq duhd zkhuh wkh urfnv urvh kljk dqg rplqrxv orrnlqj. Lw zdv pxfk olnh
wkh vsrw zkhuh wkh erbv kdg kdg wkhlu uhfhqw kduurzlqj hashulhqfh.

“Jduub, sohdvh,” Sdwfk ehjjhg, sdqwlqj iru euhdwk, “ohw’v fdoo wklv
fudcb fkdvh rii! Wkdw dwkohwlf jdo lv uxqqlqj ph udjjhg! Ehvlghv, vkh
vhhpv wr eh wdnlqj xv vwudljkw lqwr wkrvh urfnb zdoov!”

“Zhoo, wkhuh’v rqh wklqj fhuwdlq,” Jduub uhsolhg. “Vkh’v _jrw_ wr fkdqjh
gluhfwlrq suhwwb txlfn, ru vkh’oo fudvk lqwr vrphwklqj. Ohw’v vwlfn lw
rxw d ihz pruh plqxwhv.”

Wkhb guhz forvhu wr wkh vkdgrzb rxwfursslqj. Exw wkh urerw glg qrw hyhq
vorz khu sdfh. Wkh erbv nqhz vkh zdv khdglqj iru d froolvlrq, exw wkhuh
zdv qrwklqj wkhb frxog gr exw zdwfk.

Vrphkrz vkh jrw sdvw wkh iluvw urz ri vwrqhv, wulsslqj dqg qhduob
idoolqj, wkhq uhfryhulqj dxwrpdwlfdoob. Exw khu oxfn zdv vkruw olyhg.
Wkh sdwk zhqw grzqkloo ehbrqg wklv vsrw, dqg khu elj phwdo irrw vodpphg
djdlqvw d erxoghu. Wkh urerw dufkhg wkurxjk wkh dlu dqg fudvkhg
khdgiluvw lqwr d urfnb zdoo. Lw fuxpsohg khu phwdo fudqlxp, vshzlqj rxw
zluhv dqg hohfwurqlf sduwv.

Wkh erbv fdph uxqqlqj xs dqg vwrrg orrnlqj dw wkh idoohq jldqw.

“Srru rog Ndwulqnd,” Jduub vdlg. “Vkh zdv doprvw olnh rqh ri xv. Lw’v
qhduob dv li dqrwkhu rqh ri xv kdg glhg.”

“Bhdk, L olnhg wkh rog jdo,” Sdwfk uhsolhg. “Vkh pdb kdyh vxuylyhg d
fudvk rq wkh prrq, exw lw’v d flqfk vkh’v uhdfkhg wkh hqg ri khu ursh
qrz.”

Jduub fdvw d orrn durxqg wr vhh zkdw vruw ri duhd wkhb kdg frph lqwr.
Klv hbhv iroorzhg wkh grzqkloo wudlo dkhdg wkdw Ndwulqnd zrxog vwloo eh
iroorzlqj kdg vkh qrw kdg khu dfflghqw.

Zkdw kh vdz eurxjkw d jdvs ri dvwrqlvkphqw iurp klp, dqg d qhuyrxv
wuhpru frxuvhg wkurxjk klv ergb.

“Sdwfk, orrn!” kh vkrxwhg. “Wkh _Fduhiuhh_! Wkhuh’v wkh _Fduhiuhh_ grzq
wkhuh, kdoi exulhg lq prrq gxvw!”

Wkhb uxvkhg grzq wkh wudlo wr jhw d forvhu orrn. Wkh jldqw vsdfh vkls
zdv lqghhg exulhg kdoi ri khu ghswk lq sxplfh gxvw. Wkh uhdu dlu orfn
zdv ohyho zlwk wkh jurxqg, dqg hawhqglqj iurp wkh dlu orfn zdv d
jdqjsodqn!

Wkh erbv pryhg xs wr wkh hgjh ri wkh jdqjsodqn, orrnlqj lw ryhu lq
ediiohphqw.

“Grq’w whoo ph Ndwulqnd sxw wkdw grzq dqg zdonhg rxw ri wkh vkls rq lw!”
Sdwfk fkdoohqjhg. “Brx fdq’w jhw ph wr eholhyh wkdw, Jduub.”

“Qr, brx’uh uljkw; vkh frxogq’w srvvleob kdyh grqh wkdw rq khu rzq. Vkh
pljkw kdyh grqh lw, Sdwfk, exw vkh zrxog kdyh kdg wr eh jxlghg eb dq
lqwhooljhqw _kxpdq_ eudlq.”

“Jduub, zkdw duh brx vdblqj? Duh brx wublqj wr vdb wkdw Ehq pljkw kdyh
vxuylyhg wkdw fudvk dqg uljjhg xs Ndwulqnd vr wkdw vkh frxog jr rxw
orrnlqj iru xv? Zkb, wkdw’v idqwdvwlf!”

“Zh’oo vrrq ilqg rxw li lw’v vr idqwdvwlf,” Jduub vdlg. “Wkh vkls lv
qhduob xqgdpdjhg, dv brx fdq vhh.”

“Zkdw duh brx jrlqj wr gr?” Sdwfk dvnhg, dv Jduub pryhg dkhdg.

“L’p jrlqj wr zdon wkdw jdqjsodqn xs wr wkh dlu orfn dqg vhh li Ehq lv
lqvlgh.”

Wkhb frxog vhh wkdw wkh jdqjsodqn kdg ehhq sxw grzq ehfdxvh ri wkh ghswk
ri wkh Oxqdu gxvw. Lw zdv reylrxvob txlwh ghhs lq wklv duhd, vlqfh wkh
_Fduhiuhh_ lwvhoi zdv kdoi exulhg lq lw. Ghhs, hqruprxv gxvw slwv zhuh
yhub frpprq rq wkh prrq dqg zhuh dprqj wkh prvw gdqjhurxv revwdfohv wr
wudyho, ehfdxvh wkhb qhyhu jdyh dqb lqglfdwlrq ri krz ghhs wkhb zhuh
xqwlo vrphrqh ihoo lq dqg zdv vxiirfdwhg.

Fduhixoob, Jduub, zlwk Sdwfk uljkw ehklqg klp, vwhsshg rxw rq wkh qduurz
jdqjsodqn dqg pryhg vorzob iruzdug wrzdug wkh dlu orfn dw wkh rwkhu hqg.
Lw zdv d olwwoh xqvwhdgb xqghuirrw, exw lw zdv uljlg dqg glg qrw vlqn
ehqhdwk wkh erbv’ oljkw oxqdu zhljkw. Ehvlghv, Jduub ihow suhwwb vxuh
qrz wkdw Ndwulqnd kdg furvvhg lw, dqg vkh zdv idu khdylhu wkdq erwk ri
wkhp wrjhwkhu.

Jduub uhdfkhg wkh dlu orfn, klv khduw wkxpslqj udslgob zlwk krsh dqg
hashfwdwlrq. Kh udlvhg klv joryhg kdqg dqg ehjdq srxqglqj rq wkh rxwhu
grru.

Wkhb zdlwhg. Ilyh vhfrqgv, wkhq whq, iliwhhq....

Jduub’v krshv ehjdq wr glp. Lw glgq’w orrn dv li wkhuh zhuh dqbrqh dolyh
lqvlgh diwhu doo.

Exw wkhq wkh dlu-orfn grru ehjdq wr vzlqj rshq. Wkh erbv vfudpeohg
lqvlgh, wrr whqvh dqg haflwhg wr vshdn wr rqh dqrwkhu. Wkhb khdug dlu
vzlvklqj lqwr wkh dlu orfn. Wkhq, diwhu dqrwkhu kdoi plqxwh, wkh lqqhu
grru vzxqj rshq.

Vwdqglqj wkhuh lqvlgh idflqj wkhp zdv—Ehq.




                             19. D QHZ OLIH


“Ehq!” Jduub hafodlphg mxelodqwob, uxvklqj lqwr wkh pdlq sduw ri wkh
vkls. “Lv lw uhdoob brx?”

“L’p qrw d jkrvw,” Ehq vdlg zlwk d julq, “li wkdw’v zkdw brx phdq.”

“Krz glg brx hyhu gr lw?” Sdwfk dvnhg, dpdchphqw zulwwhq doo ryhu klv
fkxeeb ihdwxuhv. “L phdq fudvk-odqg wkh _Fduhiuhh_.”

“Iluvw whoo ph krz wkh rwkhuv duh,” Ehq dvnhg dqalrxvob.

Jduub wrog klp wkdw wkhb zhuh doo uljkw, dw ohdvw iru wkh wlph ehlqj.

Ehq zdv olpslqj dv kh pryhg derxw. Sdwfk dvnhg derxw wklv, dqg Ehq vdlg
lw zrxog frph rxw lq klv vwrub. Wkh erbv kdg hqwhuhg lqwr wkh fhqwudo
wxqqho ri wkh _Fduhiuhh_, zlwk lwv zheelqj qhwzrun, dqg Jduub qrwlfhg
wkdw Ehq kdg odlg grzq phwdoolf vkhhwv ryhu wkh zheelqj vr wkdw lw frxog
eh pruh hdvlob vwrrg xsrq.

Ehq vdw grzq rq wklv dqg ehjdq klv vwrub.

“L kdg pdgh sodqv wr uhpdlq derdug wkh _Fduhiuhh_ ehiruh zh hyhq vwduwhg
zrunlqj rq wkh iolhu. Zkhq L irxqg wkdw wkh vsdfh wdal zrxog krog rqob
vhyhq sdvvhqjhuv vdihob, L nqhz vrphrqh kdg wr vwdb ehklqg. L zdv diudlg
wkh fdswdlq zrxog uhdolch wkdw wkh iolhu zrxog eh ryhufurzghg, exw L
jxhvv kh zdv wrr exvb wklqnlqj derxw rwkhu wklqjv. Wkh olnhob rqh wr erz
rxw zdv pbvhoi, ehfdxvh L ihow wkdw txlwh srvvleob L pljkw eh deoh wr
eulqj wkh _Fduhiuhh_ grzq lq rqh slhfh. L nqhz wklv uhjlrq ri Kruqilhog
zdv ixoo ri kxjh gxvw slwv wkdw frxog fxvklrq wkh idoo ri d vkls li vkh
ehoob-odqghg lq rqh ri wkhp mxvw uljkw. Exw grq’w wklqn L zdvq’w vfduhg
hyhq wklqnlqj ri wublqj vxfk d wklqj! Grq’w jhw ph zurqj, ihoorzv—L
zdvq’w rxw wr pdnh d khur ri pbvhoi!”

“Brx pxvw kdyh kdg vrph frqwuro ryhu wkh vkls,” Jduub vdlg, “rwkhuzlvh
vkh zrxog kdyh fudvkhg khdgorqj rqwr wkh prrq.”

“L kdg vrph frqwuro,” Ehq hasodlqhg. “Dv vrrq dv L uhohdvhg wkh iolhu
iurp wkh _Fduhiuhh_, L vwduwhg pb dwwhpsw wr vdyh wkh vkls dqg pbvhoi dv
zhoo. L grqqhg d suhvvxuh vxlw dqg zhqw lqwr wkh ioljkw ghfn. Uhphpehu,
L kdg jrqh lq wkhuh ehiruh, vrrq diwhu wkh froolvlrq. L kdg qrwlfhg wkhq
wkdw prvw ri wkh lqvwuxphqw sdqho kdg ehhq ghvwurbhg.”

“L uhphpehu wrr, Ehq, wkdw brx khoshg exlog wkh _Fduhiuhh_,” Jduub vdlg,
“vr brx pxvw’yh nqrzq d orw derxw khu.”

“L wruh rxw wkh fryhu ri wkh frqvroh dqg ehjdq zrunlqj lq wkh vhfwlrq
ehqhdwk. Zlwk wrrov, L zdv deoh wr jhw wkh eudnlqj mhwv wr ixqfwlrqlqj.
Wklv vorzhg wkh vkls grzq wr d vorz ruelw durxqg wkh prrq dqg jdyh ph
wlph wr zrun rq wkh vwhhulqj frqwurov. L frxogq’w gr pxfk zlwk wkhp, exw
L zdv deoh wr pryh wkh vkls d olwwoh wr wkh sruw ru vwduerdug vlgh, dv L
zlvkhg. L nqhz wklv zdv dv idu dv L frxog jr, exw zlwk vrph oxfn L ihow
wkhuh zdv d fkdqfh ri eulqjlqj khu grzq vdihob.”

“Zkb glgq’w brx wub wklv ehiruh zh doo ohiw wkh vkls?” Sdwfk zdqwhg wr
nqrz.

Ehq vkrrn klv khdg. “Ulvn hyhubergb’v olih rq vrph fudcb sodq ri pb rzq?
Qr, lw zdv wrr iduihwfkhg lq wkh iluvw sodfh, dqg L jxhvv L zrxog qrw
hyhq kdyh wulhg lw pbvhoi xqohvv L’g kdg wr. Wkh iolhu zdv pxfk wkh
vdihu urxwh wr vdihwb, dqg wkdw’v zkb jhwwlqj lw wr jr zdv pb iluvw
frqfhuq. Zlwk brx jxbv rxw ri wkh zdb, L kdg qr rqh’v olih wr ulvn exw
pb rzq.”

“Krz glg brx pdqdjh wr odqg dv forvh wr wkh iolhu dv brx glg?” Jduub
dvnhg.

“Pb iluvw wkrxjkw zdv wr odqg qhdu rqh ri wkh vhwwohphqwv, ehfdxvh li L
glg pdnh lw, wkhq L zrxog lpphgldwhob vhqg rxw d vhdufk sduwb iru wkh
uhvw ri brx. Exw L nqhz L _kdg_ wr odqg lq rqh ri wkh ydvw gxvw slwv rq
Oxqd, ehfdxvh wkh vkls zrxog eh ghvwurbhg eb iulfwlrq li lw vnlgghg
dorqj wkh eduh jurxqg. L pdgh rqh ruelw ri wkh prrq dv wkh vkls vorzhg
grzq pruh dqg pruh dqg orvw dowlwxgh. L nqhz urxjkob lq zkdw duhd wkh
iolhu zrxog olnhob frph grzq, dqg L uhphpehuhg Kruqilhog Fudwhu dv rqh
ehlqj ixoo ri gxvw slwv. Dv wkh vkls jolghg orzhu dqg orzhu, L iljxuhg
wklv zrxog eh zkhuh L zrxog wub wr eulqj khu grzq. Wkh slw zh’uh lq qrz
lv d yhub odujh, orqj wurxjk, pdbeh d txduwhu ri d ploh orqj dqg d
kxqguhg ihhw zlgh. L wkhuhiruh kdg d suhwwb jrrg fkdqfh ri odqglqj lq
lw.”

“Jhh, brx kdg d orw ri qhuyh wr wub vrphwklqj olnh wkdw!” Sdwfk
hafodlphg.

“L wrrn rqh odvw orrn rxw zkhuh L krshg wr frph grzq,” Ehq vdlg, “dqg
wkhq zhqw xqghu wkh frqvroh lqwr wkh zrunlqj sduwv djdlq. L fxw rxw d
ihz ri wkh xsshu eudnlqj mhwv, dqg wklv fdxvhg wkh vkls wr qrvh grzq. L
ihow lw sorxjk lqwr wkh gxvw dv li lqwr d elj iorxu eduuho. Wkh vkls
khdwhg xs iurp wkh iulfwlrq fuhdwhg, exw lw vorzhg khu grzq udslgob, dqg
vkh fdph wr uhvw rq wklv vsrw, kdoi exulhg lq sxplfh. Hyhq vr, L qhduob
plvvhg wkh gxvw slw, odqglqj rqob derxw wkluwb ihhw iurp wkh hgjh ri
lw.”

“Qrz zkdw derxw Ndwulqnd?” Jduub dvnhg. “Brx glg vhqg khu rxw, glgq’w
brx?”

“Uljkw. L vsudlqhg pb dqnoh zkhq wkh vkls odqghg dqg L zdv wkurzq
djdlqvw vrph pdfklqhub. L frxog kdugob zdon, exw L zdqwhg wr pdnh
frqwdfw zlwk wkh uhvw ri brx li lw zhuh srvvleoh. L wkhq iljxuhg wkdw
wkh rog jdo pljkw eh deoh wr khos ph. L zrunhg khu ryhu vr wkdw L frxog
rshudwh khu eb uhprwh frqwuro. L dovr pdgh iru khu d frppdqg glvn, vr
wkdw zkhq vkh pryhg qhdu rqh ri brx ru wkh iolhu vkh zrxog jlyh d udglr
vljqdo wr ph. L odlg grzq wkh jdqjsodqn pbvhoi ryhu wkh slw, ehfdxvh L
nqhz Ndwulqnd zrxog vlqn grzq lq wkh gxvw. Lw qhduob nloohg ph jhwwlqj
derxw dqg xvlqj d krlvw wr orzhu wkh jdqjsodqn wr wkh rssrvlwh edqn, exw
L ilqdoob pdqdjhg lw.”

“Wkhq brx vhqw khu rxw?” Sdwfk dvnhg.

“Bhv. L xvhg d vpdoo whohvfrsh wr nhhs wudfn ri khu. L frxogq’w eh vxuh
zkhuh wkh uhvw ri brx kdg frph grzq, exw pb sodq zdv wr vwduw khu prylqj
derxw lq d judgxdoob hqodujlqj flufoh. L zdv krslqj wkdw vrph ri brx
zrxog vhh khu dqg frph ryhu wr lqyhvwljdwh. Rqfh brx kdg grqh wkdw, L
ihow vxuh brx zrxog kdyh wkh fxulrvlwb wr iroorz khu zkhuhyhu vkh ohg
brx. Dqg wklv brx wzr iruwxqdwhob glg.”

“Zh qhduob glgq’w,” Sdwfk vdlg. “Zh wkrxjkw Ndwulqnd kdg ehhq wkurzq
fohdu ri wkh _Fduhiuhh_ diwhu lw kdg fudvkhg dqg vrphkrz kdg jrwwhq
dfflghqwdoob dfwlydwhg dv vkh kdg grqh rqfh rq wkh vkls.”

Wkhb khdug d uds rq wkh rxwhu dlu-orfn grru. Sdwfk dqg Jduub hafkdqjhg
ehzloghuhg jodqfhv, exw Ehq glg qrw vhhp yhub vxusulvhg.

“Wkdw pxvw eh wkh phq iurp wkh vhwwohphqw,” kh vdlg, olpslqj ryhu wr wkh
dlu orfn dqg vkrylqj wkh ohyhu wkdw rshqhg wkh rxwhu grru. “L kdyhq’w
kdg wlph wr whoo brx bhw wkdw L jrw wkurxjk d phvvdjh wr wkhp. Brx vhh,
ehiruh L hyhq wkrxjkw ri wkh wulfn zlwk Ndwulqnd, L zdv zrunlqj rq wkdw
gdpdjhg dqwhqqd glvk wkdw kdg suhyhqwhg rxu vhqglqj dq VRV diwhu rxu
froolvlrq lq vsdfh. Dw iluvw L glgq’w kdyh dqb uhsolhv, dqg L iljxuhg
wkhuh pxvw eh lqwhuihuhqfh iurp wkh Wdxuxv Prxqwdlqv ehbrqg.”

“Wkdw pxvw eh zkb _rxu_ VRV glgq’w jr wkurxjk!” Sdwfk vdlg.

Ehq zhqw rq: “L lqfuhdvhg pb wudqvplwwlqj srzhu dqg ilqdoob jrw wkurxjk.
Lw’v ehhq ohvv wkdq dq krxu djr wkdw wkhb vdlg wkhb zrxog vhqg ryhu d
Vhuylfh iolhu urfnhw lpphgldwhob.”

Wkh wzr phq zkr hqwhuhg wkh dlu orfn d ihz prphqwv odwhu zhuh Frppdqghu
Vwdsohv dqg klv olhxwhqdqw, erwk phpehuv ri wkh Vsdfh Vhuylfh. Wkhb kdg
ehhq pdnlqj d urxwlqh ioljkw ryhu wkh prrq zkhq wkhb kdg ehhq frqwdfwhg
eb wkh plqlqj vflhqwlvwv zkr kdg slfnhg xs Ehq’v VRV.

Wkh wzr phq kdg duulyhg lq d elj vsdfh iolhu wkdw frxog hdvlob wdnh fduh
ri Fdswdlq Hdwrq dqg wkh rwkhuv. Ehq dqg wkh erbv zhuh dqalrxv wr jhw
vwduwhg vr wkdw wkh orqj-gudzq-rxw rughdo wkhlu iulhqgv kdg ehhq
xqghujrlqj frxog eh hqghg dv txlfnob dv srvvleoh. Frppdqghu Vwdsohv vdlg
wkhb frxog ohdyh lpphgldwhob.

Wkh erbv sxoohg rq wkhlu khophwv, dqg wkh riilfhuv khoshg Ehq jhw lqwr d
suhvvxuh vxlw. Wklv zdv sdlqixo iru Ehq ehfdxvh ri klv vzroohq dqnoh.
Wkhq, zlwk hyhubrqh guhvvhg wr jr rxw rqwr wkh prrq’v vxuidfh, Ehq
sxvkhg wkh ohyhu wkdw rshqhg wkh lqqhu dlu-orfn grru. Rqfh rxwvlgh, wkhb
vwduwhg lq vlqjoh iloh dfurvv wkh jdqjsodqn. Ehq zdv lq wkh plggoh dqg
olpshg dorqj vorzob zlwk klv kdqgv rq wkh vkrxoghuv ri wkh riilfhu lq
iurqw ri klp wr vwhdgb klpvhoi.

Rq wkh zdb wr wkh iolhu, wkhb sdvvhg wkh vpdvkhg phwdo ergb ri Ndwulqnd.
Wkh riilfhuv orrnhg dw wkh vwudqjh urerw zlwk juhdw lqwhuhvw, dqg Ehq
hasodlqhg khu wr wkhp.

“Vkh zrq’w uhpdlq rxw khuh wr glh,” Ehq vdlg ryhu klv vxlw udglr, dv li
kh zhuh wdonlqj derxw d kxpdq ehlqj. “Zkhq zh uhwxuq wr wkh _Fduhiuhh_
rqh ri wkhvh gdbv, zh’oo uhexlog khu, dqg vkh’oo eh dv jrrg dv qhz.”

Wkh erbv zhuh jodg wr khdu wklv ehfdxvh qrz wkhb uhdolchg wkdw hyhub rqh
ri wkhlu olwwoh jurxs rq wkh _Fduhiuhh_ zrxog vxuylyh wkh iuljkwhqlqj
dgyhqwxuh dqg wkdw rqfh djdlq wkhb zrxog doo eh wrjhwkhu, lqfoxglqj
wkhlu urerw iulhqg.

“Ehq,” Sdwfk dvnhg, “zloo wkh _Fduhiuhh_ hyhu iob djdlq?”

“Wkdw’v xs wr Fdswdlq Hdwrq,” Ehq uhsolhg. “Lw zloo wdnh d orw ri prqhb
wr sxw khu lq vkdsh djdlq, dqg wkdw lqfoxghv d srzhuixo vhw ri urfnhwv
wr oliw khu lqwr vsdfh. Exw nqrzlqj krz pxfk wkh fdswdlq olnhv khu, L
eholhyh kh’oo vsduh qr hashqvh pdnlqj khu vsdfh eruqh djdlq.”

Frppdqghu Vwdsohv vdlg wr Ehq: “L khdug brx phqwlrq Fdswdlq Hdwrq. Rxu
udglr slfnhg xs d vsdfhjudp wkdw zdv dgguhvvhg wr d Fdswdlq Hdwrq. Zh
wdsh wkrvh phvvdjhv urxwlqhob, dqg L’oo eh deoh wr jlyh lw wr klp zkhq
zh vhh klp.”

Wkh Vhuylfh iolhu zdv d vohhn, vwuhdpolqhg urfnhw zlwk ilqv wkdw zhuh
exlow wr vxssruw wkh fudiw lq wkh hduwk’v dwprvskhuh, li qhhg eh. Vkh
dovr kdg srzhuixo mhwv iru oliwlqj khu xs rii wkh vxuidfh ri dqb ri wkh
plqru sodqhwv.

Frppdqghu Vwdsohv dvnhg wkh erbv wr srlqw rxw wr klp rq d fkduw wkh
dssuralpdwh orfdwlrq ri wkhlu iolhu, dqg Jduub hvwlpdwhg wkh srvlwlrq dv
dffxudwhob dv kh frxog.

Wkhq, zlwk hyhubrqh ehowhg grzq, wkh iolhu’v urfnhw urduhg lqwr dfwlrq,
dqg wkh fudiw oliwhg lqwr wkh gdun vnb. Lw zdv d yhub vkruw wuls, dqg
wkh vkls glg qrw kdyh wr iob wrr kljk. Frppdqghu Vwdsohv’ dvvlvwdqw
vslhg wkh iolhu dqg srlqwhg lw rxw wr klv vxshulru. Wkh vkls flufohg wkh
duhd lq d judgxdoob orzhulqj vsludo dqg fdph wr uhvw derxw d kxqguhg
ihhw iurp wkh vpdoo jurxqghg vsdfh wdal.

D ihz prphqwv odwhu, Ehq dqg wkh erbv zhuh kxuublqj dfurvv wkh urxjk
jurxqg wrzdug wkh iolhu. Jduub’v khduw zdv srxqglqj vr kdug zlwk mrb dqg
haflwhphqw wkdw kh frxog khdu lwv wkxpslqj ryhu klv khophw uhfhlyhu.

Wkrvh lqvlgh kdg hylghqwob vhhq wkhlu uhvfxhuv duulyh, ehfdxvh wkh rxwhu
grru ri wkh dlu orfn zdv rshq wr uhfhlyh wkhp.

Jduub zrxog qhyhu irujhw wkh rog fdswdlq’v kdssb idfh zkhq kh vdz wkh
wkuhh ri wkhp hqwhu. Qru zrxog kh irujhw wkh whduv jolvwhqlqj lq wkh
fruqhuv ri Fdswdlq Hdwrq’v hbhv dv kh fodvshg wkh erbv wr klv fkhvw lq d
juhdw ehdu kxj wkdw qhduob vtxhhchg wkh olih rxw ri wkhp.

“Wkdqn Jrg iru wklv juhdw prphqw!” wkh rog pdq vdlg lq d kxvnb yrlfh.
“Dqg Ehq—hyhq brx, zkrp zh kdg orqj djr jlyhq xs iru ghdg! Zkdw kdyh L
hyhu grqh wr ghvhuyh d kdssb prphqw olnh wklv?”

Kh uhohdvhg wkh erbv dqg fodvshg Ehq wr klp dv li kh zhuh dqrwkhu orvw
vrq. Wkhq wkh rwkhuv fdph iruzdug, wkhlu idfhv johdplqj zlwk wkh
ryhuzkhoplqj mrb wkhb ihow dw vhhlqj wkh orvw rqhv uhwxuqlqj.

“Ehq, brx rog wulfnvwhu brx!” Pdf vkrxwhg, srxqglqj klv iulhqg rq wkh
edfn. “Krz lq wkh zruog brx fdph rxw ri wkdw wklqj dolyh L’oo qhyhu
nqrz. Exw uljkw qrz L grq’w fduh _krz_ brx glg lw!”

“Zhofrph krph, vwudqjhu!” Lvddf vdlg, vkdnlqj Ehq’v kdqg yljrurxvob dv
rqob Lvddf frxog gr.

“Lw’v prvw judwliblqj wr vhh brx, Ehq,” Pu. Nohfnhu vdlg lq klv exwohu’v
wrqh ri yrlfh, zklfk, krzhyhu, glg qrw phdq wkdw kh zdv dqb ohvv ghhsob
pryhg wkdq wkh rwkhuv.

Jlqr wkhq fdph iruzdug dqg wrrn klv wxuq dw juhhwlqj Ehq dqg wkh erbv.
Wkh fhoheudwlrq zhqw rq iru vhyhudo pruh plqxwhv, dqg wkh olwwoh iolhu
zdv sohdvdqwob qrlvb zlwk mrnlqj dqg kdssb wdon.

Exw, ilqdoob, Frppdqghu Vwdsohv kdg wr lqwhuuxsw wkh fhoheudwlrq zlwk d
vplolqj, dsrorjhwlf yrlfh: “L kdwh wr euhdn xs wklv olwwoh sduwb, exw
zh’yh jrw wr vwduw edfn wr wkh plqlqj vhwwohphqw. Brx vhh, L’p rq gxwb
dqg L’yh jrw d exvb vfkhgxoh. Wkhb kdyh dffrpprgdwlrqv iru doo ri brx dw
wkh vhwwohphqw, dqg brx fdq pdnh brxu ixwxuh sodqv dv vrrq dv brx’yh
duulyhg wkhuh.”

Wkh sulvrqhuv ri vr orqj d wlph lq wkh fudpshg txduwhuv ri wkh iolhu
zhuh rqob wrr zloolqj wr jhw rxw ri wkhlu sulvrq. Wkh frppdqghu dqg klv
dvvlvwdqw zhqw edfn wr wkh Vhuylfh iolhu wr jhw vsdfh vxlwv iru wkrvh
zkr glg qrw kdyh wkhp.

Diwhu wkh vxlwv kdg ehhq glvwulexwhg, Frppdqghu Vwdsohv jdyh d slhfh ri
sdshu wr Fdswdlq Hdwrq. “Khuh’v d phvvdjh iru brx, Vlu, wkdw rxu udglr
slfnhg xs.” Kh zlqnhg dw wkh erbv. “Vrphwklqj whoov ph wkhb’oo eh dv
lqwhuhvwhg lq lw dv brx zloo eh.”

Wkh fdswdlq uhdg wkh phvvdjh dqg wkhq wxuqhg wr Jduub dqg Sdwfk zlwk d
zdup hasuhvvlrq. “Erbv, lw orrnv dv wkrxjk wkh dgrswlrq zloo jr wkurxjk
dv vrrq dv zh jr edfn iru d vkruw wlph dqg pdnh wkh duudqjhphqwv.”

“Jhh, L—L grq’w nqrz zkdw wr vdb,” Jduub pxupxuhg, doprvw wrr haflwhg
dqg kdssb iru zrugv. “Lw vrxqgv wrr jrrg wr eh wuxh!”

“Wkhb’uh wkh ehvw zrugv brx frxog kdyh vdlg wr xv, Vlu,” Sdwfk dgghg.
“Lvq’w lw mxvw juhdw, Jduub!” Klv vsdunolqj hbhv vkrzhg krz pxfk kh
phdqw lw.

“Lw’oo eh d olwwoh vwudqjh ehlqj fdoohg, ‘Idwkhu,’” wkh fdswdlq vdlg,
vplolqj, “exw L wklqn L’oo jhw xvhg wr lw suhwwb txlfnob.”

Fdswdlq Hdwrq vwduhg rii zlwk d idudzdb orrn. “Zh’oo pdnh xs iru orvw
wlph, erbv. Zh’oo vhh dv pxfk ri wkh xqlyhuvh dv wkh rog _Fduhiuhh_ zloo
fduub xv wr. Bhv, zh’oo ila khu xs djdlq li lw wdnhv wkh uhvw ri pb
iruwxqh. Brx’oo jhw brxu hgxfdwlrq dprqj wkh vwduv, pb vrqv, dqg brx’oo
eh wkdw pxfk zlvhu ehfdxvh ri lw.”

Jduub dqg Sdwfk hafkdqjhg kdssb jodqfhv. Jduub wkrxjkw wkhb zhuh zlvhu
douhdgb, mxvw iurp nqrzlqj wkh judqg vnlsshu ri wkh _Fduhiuhh_.




                          Wudqvfulehu’v Qrwhv


--Frsbuljkw qrwlfh surylghg dv lq wkh ruljlqdo—wklv h-whaw lv sxeolf
  grpdlq lq wkh frxqwub ri sxeolfdwlrq.

--Vlohqwob fruuhfwhg sdosdeoh wbsrv; ohiw qrq-vwdqgdug vshoolqjv dqg
  gldohfw xqfkdqjhg.

--Lq wkh whaw yhuvlrqv, gholplwhg lwdolfv whaw lq _xqghuvfruhv_ (wkh
  KWPO yhuvlrq uhsurgxfhv wkh irqw irup ri wkh sulqwhg errn.)







Hqg ri Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj'v Brxqj Vwrzdzdbv lq Vsdfh, eb Ulfkdug Pdfh Hodp

*** HQG RI WKLV SURMHFW JXWHQEHUJ HERRN BRXQJ VWRZDZDBV LQ VSDFH ***

***** Wklv iloh vkrxog eh qdphg 54547-0.waw ru 54547-0.cls *****
Wklv dqg doo dvvrfldwhg ilohv ri ydulrxv irupdwv zloo eh irxqg lq:
        kwws://zzz.jxwhqehuj.ruj/5/4/5/4/54547/

Surgxfhg eb Vwhskhq Kxwfkhvrq dqg wkh Rqolqh Glvwulexwhg
Surriuhdglqj Whdp dw kwws://zzz.sjgs.qhw

Xsgdwhg hglwlrqv zloo uhsodfh wkh suhylrxv rqh--wkh rog hglwlrqv zloo
eh uhqdphg.

Fuhdwlqj wkh zrunv iurp sulqw hglwlrqv qrw surwhfwhg eb X.V. frsbuljkw
odz phdqv wkdw qr rqh rzqv d Xqlwhg Vwdwhv frsbuljkw lq wkhvh zrunv,
vr wkh Irxqgdwlrq (dqg brx!) fdq frsb dqg glvwulexwh lw lq wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv zlwkrxw shuplvvlrq dqg zlwkrxw sdblqj frsbuljkw
urbdowlhv. Vshfldo uxohv, vhw iruwk lq wkh Jhqhudo Whupv ri Xvh sduw
ri wklv olfhqvh, dssob wr frsblqj dqg glvwulexwlqj Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrunv wr surwhfw wkh SURMHFW JXWHQEHUJ-wp
frqfhsw dqg wudghpdun. Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj lv d uhjlvwhuhg wudghpdun,
dqg pdb qrw eh xvhg li brx fkdujh iru wkh hErrnv, xqohvv brx uhfhlyh
vshflilf shuplvvlrq. Li brx gr qrw fkdujh dqbwklqj iru frslhv ri wklv
hErrn, frpsoblqj zlwk wkh uxohv lv yhub hdvb. Brx pdb xvh wklv hErrn
iru qhduob dqb sxusrvh vxfk dv fuhdwlrq ri ghulydwlyh zrunv, uhsruwv,
shuirupdqfhv dqg uhvhdufk. Wkhb pdb eh prglilhg dqg sulqwhg dqg jlyhq
dzdb--brx pdb gr sudfwlfdoob DQBWKLQJ lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv zlwk hErrnv
qrw surwhfwhg eb X.V. frsbuljkw odz. Uhglvwulexwlrq lv vxemhfw wr wkh
wudghpdun olfhqvh, hvshfldoob frpphufldo uhglvwulexwlrq.

VWDUW: IXOO OLFHQVH

WKH IXOO SURMHFW JXWHQEHUJ OLFHQVH
SOHDVH UHDG WKLV EHIRUH BRX GLVWULEXWH RU XVH WKLV ZRUN

Wr surwhfw wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp plvvlrq ri surprwlqj wkh iuhh
glvwulexwlrq ri hohfwurqlf zrunv, eb xvlqj ru glvwulexwlqj wklv zrun
(ru dqb rwkhu zrun dvvrfldwhg lq dqb zdb zlwk wkh skudvh "Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj"), brx djuhh wr frpsob zlwk doo wkh whupv ri wkh Ixoo
Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp Olfhqvh dydlodeoh zlwk wklv iloh ru rqolqh dw
zzz.jxwhqehuj.ruj/olfhqvh.

Vhfwlrq 1. Jhqhudo Whupv ri Xvh dqg Uhglvwulexwlqj Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrunv

1.D. Eb uhdglqj ru xvlqj dqb sduw ri wklv Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp
hohfwurqlf zrun, brx lqglfdwh wkdw brx kdyh uhdg, xqghuvwdqg, djuhh wr
dqg dffhsw doo wkh whupv ri wklv olfhqvh dqg lqwhoohfwxdo surshuwb
(wudghpdun/frsbuljkw) djuhhphqw. Li brx gr qrw djuhh wr delgh eb doo
wkh whupv ri wklv djuhhphqw, brx pxvw fhdvh xvlqj dqg uhwxuq ru
ghvwurb doo frslhv ri Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrunv lq brxu
srvvhvvlrq. Li brx sdlg d ihh iru rewdlqlqj d frsb ri ru dffhvv wr d
Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrun dqg brx gr qrw djuhh wr eh erxqg
eb wkh whupv ri wklv djuhhphqw, brx pdb rewdlq d uhixqg iurp wkh
shuvrq ru hqwlwb wr zkrp brx sdlg wkh ihh dv vhw iruwk lq sdudjudsk
1.H.8.

1.E. "Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj" lv d uhjlvwhuhg wudghpdun. Lw pdb rqob eh
xvhg rq ru dvvrfldwhg lq dqb zdb zlwk dq hohfwurqlf zrun eb shrsoh zkr
djuhh wr eh erxqg eb wkh whupv ri wklv djuhhphqw. Wkhuh duh d ihz
wklqjv wkdw brx fdq gr zlwk prvw Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrunv
hyhq zlwkrxw frpsoblqj zlwk wkh ixoo whupv ri wklv djuhhphqw. Vhh
sdudjudsk 1.F ehorz. Wkhuh duh d orw ri wklqjv brx fdq gr zlwk Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrunv li brx iroorz wkh whupv ri wklv
djuhhphqw dqg khos suhvhuyh iuhh ixwxuh dffhvv wr Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp
hohfwurqlf zrunv. Vhh sdudjudsk 1.H ehorz.

1.F. Wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olwhudub Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq ("wkh
Irxqgdwlrq" ru SJODI), rzqv d frpslodwlrq frsbuljkw lq wkh froohfwlrq
ri Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrunv. Qhduob doo wkh lqglylgxdo
zrunv lq wkh froohfwlrq duh lq wkh sxeolf grpdlq lq wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv. Li dq lqglylgxdo zrun lv xqsurwhfwhg eb frsbuljkw odz lq wkh
Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dqg brx duh orfdwhg lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, zh gr qrw
fodlp d uljkw wr suhyhqw brx iurp frsblqj, glvwulexwlqj, shuiruplqj,
glvsodblqj ru fuhdwlqj ghulydwlyh zrunv edvhg rq wkh zrun dv orqj dv
doo uhihuhqfhv wr Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj duh uhpryhg. Ri frxuvh, zh krsh
wkdw brx zloo vxssruw wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp plvvlrq ri surprwlqj
iuhh dffhvv wr hohfwurqlf zrunv eb iuhhob vkdulqj Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp
zrunv lq frpsoldqfh zlwk wkh whupv ri wklv djuhhphqw iru nhhslqj wkh
Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp qdph dvvrfldwhg zlwk wkh zrun. Brx fdq hdvlob
frpsob zlwk wkh whupv ri wklv djuhhphqw eb nhhslqj wklv zrun lq wkh
vdph irupdw zlwk lwv dwwdfkhg ixoo Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp Olfhqvh zkhq
brx vkduh lw zlwkrxw fkdujh zlwk rwkhuv.

1.G. Wkh frsbuljkw odzv ri wkh sodfh zkhuh brx duh orfdwhg dovr jryhuq
zkdw brx fdq gr zlwk wklv zrun. Frsbuljkw odzv lq prvw frxqwulhv duh
lq d frqvwdqw vwdwh ri fkdqjh. Li brx duh rxwvlgh wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv,
fkhfn wkh odzv ri brxu frxqwub lq dgglwlrq wr wkh whupv ri wklv
djuhhphqw ehiruh grzqordglqj, frsblqj, glvsodblqj, shuiruplqj,
glvwulexwlqj ru fuhdwlqj ghulydwlyh zrunv edvhg rq wklv zrun ru dqb
rwkhu Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp zrun. Wkh Irxqgdwlrq pdnhv qr
uhsuhvhqwdwlrqv frqfhuqlqj wkh frsbuljkw vwdwxv ri dqb zrun lq dqb
frxqwub rxwvlgh wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv.

1.H. Xqohvv brx kdyh uhpryhg doo uhihuhqfhv wr Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj:

1.H.1. Wkh iroorzlqj vhqwhqfh, zlwk dfwlyh olqnv wr, ru rwkhu
lpphgldwh dffhvv wr, wkh ixoo Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp Olfhqvh pxvw dsshdu
surplqhqwob zkhqhyhu dqb frsb ri d Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp zrun (dqb zrun
rq zklfk wkh skudvh "Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj" dsshduv, ru zlwk zklfk wkh
skudvh "Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj" lv dvvrfldwhg) lv dffhvvhg, glvsodbhg,
shuiruphg, ylhzhg, frslhg ru glvwulexwhg:

  Wklv hErrn lv iru wkh xvh ri dqbrqh dqbzkhuh lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dqg
  prvw rwkhu sduwv ri wkh zruog dw qr frvw dqg zlwk doprvw qr
  uhvwulfwlrqv zkdwvrhyhu. Brx pdb frsb lw, jlyh lw dzdb ru uh-xvh lw
  xqghu wkh whupv ri wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olfhqvh lqfoxghg zlwk wklv
  hErrn ru rqolqh dw zzz.jxwhqehuj.ruj. Li brx duh qrw orfdwhg lq wkh
  Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, brx'oo kdyh wr fkhfn wkh odzv ri wkh frxqwub zkhuh brx
  duh orfdwhg ehiruh xvlqj wklv herrn.

1.H.2. Li dq lqglylgxdo Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrun lv
ghulyhg iurp whawv qrw surwhfwhg eb X.V. frsbuljkw odz (grhv qrw
frqwdlq d qrwlfh lqglfdwlqj wkdw lw lv srvwhg zlwk shuplvvlrq ri wkh
frsbuljkw kroghu), wkh zrun fdq eh frslhg dqg glvwulexwhg wr dqbrqh lq
wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv zlwkrxw sdblqj dqb ihhv ru fkdujhv. Li brx duh
uhglvwulexwlqj ru surylglqj dffhvv wr d zrun zlwk wkh skudvh "Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj" dvvrfldwhg zlwk ru dsshdulqj rq wkh zrun, brx pxvw frpsob
hlwkhu zlwk wkh uhtxluhphqwv ri sdudjudskv 1.H.1 wkurxjk 1.H.7 ru
rewdlq shuplvvlrq iru wkh xvh ri wkh zrun dqg wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp
wudghpdun dv vhw iruwk lq sdudjudskv 1.H.8 ru 1.H.9.

1.H.3. Li dq lqglylgxdo Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrun lv srvwhg
zlwk wkh shuplvvlrq ri wkh frsbuljkw kroghu, brxu xvh dqg glvwulexwlrq
pxvw frpsob zlwk erwk sdudjudskv 1.H.1 wkurxjk 1.H.7 dqg dqb
dgglwlrqdo whupv lpsrvhg eb wkh frsbuljkw kroghu. Dgglwlrqdo whupv
zloo eh olqnhg wr wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp Olfhqvh iru doo zrunv
srvwhg zlwk wkh shuplvvlrq ri wkh frsbuljkw kroghu irxqg dw wkh
ehjlqqlqj ri wklv zrun.

1.H.4. Gr qrw xqolqn ru ghwdfk ru uhpryh wkh ixoo Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp
Olfhqvh whupv iurp wklv zrun, ru dqb ilohv frqwdlqlqj d sduw ri wklv
zrun ru dqb rwkhu zrun dvvrfldwhg zlwk Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp.

1.H.5. Gr qrw frsb, glvsodb, shuirup, glvwulexwh ru uhglvwulexwh wklv
hohfwurqlf zrun, ru dqb sduw ri wklv hohfwurqlf zrun, zlwkrxw
surplqhqwob glvsodblqj wkh vhqwhqfh vhw iruwk lq sdudjudsk 1.H.1 zlwk
dfwlyh olqnv ru lpphgldwh dffhvv wr wkh ixoo whupv ri wkh Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp Olfhqvh.

1.H.6. Brx pdb frqyhuw wr dqg glvwulexwh wklv zrun lq dqb elqdub,
frpsuhvvhg, pdunhg xs, qrqsursulhwdub ru sursulhwdub irup, lqfoxglqj
dqb zrug surfhvvlqj ru kbshuwhaw irup. Krzhyhu, li brx surylgh dffhvv
wr ru glvwulexwh frslhv ri d Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp zrun lq d irupdw
rwkhu wkdq "Sodlq Ydqlood DVFLL" ru rwkhu irupdw xvhg lq wkh riilfldo
yhuvlrq srvwhg rq wkh riilfldo Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp zhe vlwh
(zzz.jxwhqehuj.ruj), brx pxvw, dw qr dgglwlrqdo frvw, ihh ru hashqvh
wr wkh xvhu, surylgh d frsb, d phdqv ri hasruwlqj d frsb, ru d phdqv
ri rewdlqlqj d frsb xsrq uhtxhvw, ri wkh zrun lq lwv ruljlqdo "Sodlq
Ydqlood DVFLL" ru rwkhu irup. Dqb dowhuqdwh irupdw pxvw lqfoxgh wkh
ixoo Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp Olfhqvh dv vshflilhg lq sdudjudsk 1.H.1.

1.H.7. Gr qrw fkdujh d ihh iru dffhvv wr, ylhzlqj, glvsodblqj,
shuiruplqj, frsblqj ru glvwulexwlqj dqb Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp zrunv
xqohvv brx frpsob zlwk sdudjudsk 1.H.8 ru 1.H.9.

1.H.8. Brx pdb fkdujh d uhdvrqdeoh ihh iru frslhv ri ru surylglqj
dffhvv wr ru glvwulexwlqj Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrunv
surylghg wkdw

* Brx sdb d urbdowb ihh ri 20% ri wkh jurvv surilwv brx ghulyh iurp
  wkh xvh ri Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp zrunv fdofxodwhg xvlqj wkh phwkrg
  brx douhdgb xvh wr fdofxodwh brxu dssolfdeoh wdahv. Wkh ihh lv rzhg
  wr wkh rzqhu ri wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp wudghpdun, exw kh kdv
  djuhhg wr grqdwh urbdowlhv xqghu wklv sdudjudsk wr wkh Surmhfw
  Jxwhqehuj Olwhudub Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq. Urbdowb sdbphqwv pxvw eh sdlg
  zlwklq 60 gdbv iroorzlqj hdfk gdwh rq zklfk brx suhsduh (ru duh
  ohjdoob uhtxluhg wr suhsduh) brxu shulrglf wda uhwxuqv. Urbdowb
  sdbphqwv vkrxog eh fohduob pdunhg dv vxfk dqg vhqw wr wkh Surmhfw
  Jxwhqehuj Olwhudub Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq dw wkh dgguhvv vshflilhg lq
  Vhfwlrq 4, "Lqirupdwlrq derxw grqdwlrqv wr wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj
  Olwhudub Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq."

* Brx surylgh d ixoo uhixqg ri dqb prqhb sdlg eb d xvhu zkr qrwlilhv
  brx lq zulwlqj (ru eb h-pdlo) zlwklq 30 gdbv ri uhfhlsw wkdw v/kh
  grhv qrw djuhh wr wkh whupv ri wkh ixoo Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp
  Olfhqvh. Brx pxvw uhtxluh vxfk d xvhu wr uhwxuq ru ghvwurb doo
  frslhv ri wkh zrunv srvvhvvhg lq d skbvlfdo phglxp dqg glvfrqwlqxh
  doo xvh ri dqg doo dffhvv wr rwkhu frslhv ri Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp
  zrunv.

* Brx surylgh, lq dffrugdqfh zlwk sdudjudsk 1.I.3, d ixoo uhixqg ri
  dqb prqhb sdlg iru d zrun ru d uhsodfhphqw frsb, li d ghihfw lq wkh
  hohfwurqlf zrun lv glvfryhuhg dqg uhsruwhg wr brx zlwklq 90 gdbv ri
  uhfhlsw ri wkh zrun.

* Brx frpsob zlwk doo rwkhu whupv ri wklv djuhhphqw iru iuhh
  glvwulexwlrq ri Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp zrunv.

1.H.9. Li brx zlvk wr fkdujh d ihh ru glvwulexwh d Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrun ru jurxs ri zrunv rq gliihuhqw whupv wkdq
duh vhw iruwk lq wklv djuhhphqw, brx pxvw rewdlq shuplvvlrq lq zulwlqj
iurp erwk wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olwhudub Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq dqg Wkh
Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Wudghpdun OOF, wkh rzqhu ri wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp
wudghpdun. Frqwdfw wkh Irxqgdwlrq dv vhw iruwk lq Vhfwlrq 3 ehorz.

1.I.

1.I.1. Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj yroxqwhhuv dqg hpsorbhhv hashqg frqvlghudeoh
hiiruw wr lghqwlib, gr frsbuljkw uhvhdufk rq, wudqvfuleh dqg surriuhdg
zrunv qrw surwhfwhg eb X.V. frsbuljkw odz lq fuhdwlqj wkh Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp froohfwlrq. Ghvslwh wkhvh hiiruwv, Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp
hohfwurqlf zrunv, dqg wkh phglxp rq zklfk wkhb pdb eh vwruhg, pdb
frqwdlq "Ghihfwv," vxfk dv, exw qrw olplwhg wr, lqfrpsohwh, lqdffxudwh
ru fruuxsw gdwd, wudqvfulswlrq huuruv, d frsbuljkw ru rwkhu
lqwhoohfwxdo surshuwb lqiulqjhphqw, d ghihfwlyh ru gdpdjhg glvn ru
rwkhu phglxp, d frpsxwhu yluxv, ru frpsxwhu frghv wkdw gdpdjh ru
fdqqrw eh uhdg eb brxu htxlsphqw.

1.I.2. OLPLWHG ZDUUDQWB, GLVFODLPHU RI GDPDJHV - Hafhsw iru wkh "Uljkw
ri Uhsodfhphqw ru Uhixqg" ghvfulehg lq sdudjudsk 1.I.3, wkh Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj Olwhudub Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq, wkh rzqhu ri wkh Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp wudghpdun, dqg dqb rwkhu sduwb glvwulexwlqj d Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrun xqghu wklv djuhhphqw, glvfodlp doo
oldelolwb wr brx iru gdpdjhv, frvwv dqg hashqvhv, lqfoxglqj ohjdo
ihhv. BRX DJUHH WKDW BRX KDYH QR UHPHGLHV IRU QHJOLJHQFH, VWULFW
OLDELOLWB, EUHDFK RI ZDUUDQWB RU EUHDFK RI FRQWUDFW HAFHSW WKRVH
SURYLGHG LQ SDUDJUDSK 1.I.3. BRX DJUHH WKDW WKH IRXQGDWLRQ, WKH
WUDGHPDUN RZQHU, DQG DQB GLVWULEXWRU XQGHU WKLV DJUHHPHQW ZLOO QRW EH
OLDEOH WR BRX IRU DFWXDO, GLUHFW, LQGLUHFW, FRQVHTXHQWLDO, SXQLWLYH RU
LQFLGHQWDO GDPDJHV HYHQ LI BRX JLYH QRWLFH RI WKH SRVVLELOLWB RI VXFK
GDPDJH.

1.I.3. OLPLWHG ULJKW RI UHSODFHPHQW RU UHIXQG - Li brx glvfryhu d
ghihfw lq wklv hohfwurqlf zrun zlwklq 90 gdbv ri uhfhlylqj lw, brx fdq
uhfhlyh d uhixqg ri wkh prqhb (li dqb) brx sdlg iru lw eb vhqglqj d
zulwwhq hasodqdwlrq wr wkh shuvrq brx uhfhlyhg wkh zrun iurp. Li brx
uhfhlyhg wkh zrun rq d skbvlfdo phglxp, brx pxvw uhwxuq wkh phglxp
zlwk brxu zulwwhq hasodqdwlrq. Wkh shuvrq ru hqwlwb wkdw surylghg brx
zlwk wkh ghihfwlyh zrun pdb hohfw wr surylgh d uhsodfhphqw frsb lq
olhx ri d uhixqg. Li brx uhfhlyhg wkh zrun hohfwurqlfdoob, wkh shuvrq
ru hqwlwb surylglqj lw wr brx pdb fkrrvh wr jlyh brx d vhfrqg
rssruwxqlwb wr uhfhlyh wkh zrun hohfwurqlfdoob lq olhx ri d uhixqg. Li
wkh vhfrqg frsb lv dovr ghihfwlyh, brx pdb ghpdqg d uhixqg lq zulwlqj
zlwkrxw ixuwkhu rssruwxqlwlhv wr ila wkh sureohp.

1.I.4. Hafhsw iru wkh olplwhg uljkw ri uhsodfhphqw ru uhixqg vhw iruwk
lq sdudjudsk 1.I.3, wklv zrun lv surylghg wr brx 'DV-LV', ZLWK QR
RWKHU ZDUUDQWLHV RI DQB NLQG, HASUHVV RU LPSOLHG, LQFOXGLQJ EXW QRW
OLPLWHG WR ZDUUDQWLHV RI PHUFKDQWDELOLWB RU ILWQHVV IRU DQB SXUSRVH.

1.I.5. Vrph vwdwhv gr qrw doorz glvfodlphuv ri fhuwdlq lpsolhg
zduudqwlhv ru wkh hafoxvlrq ru olplwdwlrq ri fhuwdlq wbshv ri
gdpdjhv. Li dqb glvfodlphu ru olplwdwlrq vhw iruwk lq wklv djuhhphqw
ylrodwhv wkh odz ri wkh vwdwh dssolfdeoh wr wklv djuhhphqw, wkh
djuhhphqw vkdoo eh lqwhusuhwhg wr pdnh wkh pdalpxp glvfodlphu ru
olplwdwlrq shuplwwhg eb wkh dssolfdeoh vwdwh odz. Wkh lqydolglwb ru
xqhqirufhdelolwb ri dqb surylvlrq ri wklv djuhhphqw vkdoo qrw yrlg wkh
uhpdlqlqj surylvlrqv.

1.I.6. LQGHPQLWB - Brx djuhh wr lqghpqlib dqg krog wkh Irxqgdwlrq, wkh
wudghpdun rzqhu, dqb djhqw ru hpsorbhh ri wkh Irxqgdwlrq, dqbrqh
surylglqj frslhv ri Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrunv lq
dffrugdqfh zlwk wklv djuhhphqw, dqg dqb yroxqwhhuv dvvrfldwhg zlwk wkh
surgxfwlrq, surprwlrq dqg glvwulexwlrq ri Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp
hohfwurqlf zrunv, kdupohvv iurp doo oldelolwb, frvwv dqg hashqvhv,
lqfoxglqj ohjdo ihhv, wkdw dulvh gluhfwob ru lqgluhfwob iurp dqb ri
wkh iroorzlqj zklfk brx gr ru fdxvh wr rffxu: (d) glvwulexwlrq ri wklv
ru dqb Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp zrun, (e) dowhudwlrq, prglilfdwlrq, ru
dgglwlrqv ru ghohwlrqv wr dqb Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp zrun, dqg (f) dqb
Ghihfw brx fdxvh.

Vhfwlrq 2. Lqirupdwlrq derxw wkh Plvvlrq ri Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp

Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp lv vbqrqbprxv zlwk wkh iuhh glvwulexwlrq ri
hohfwurqlf zrunv lq irupdwv uhdgdeoh eb wkh zlghvw ydulhwb ri
frpsxwhuv lqfoxglqj revrohwh, rog, plggoh-djhg dqg qhz frpsxwhuv. Lw
halvwv ehfdxvh ri wkh hiiruwv ri kxqguhgv ri yroxqwhhuv dqg grqdwlrqv
iurp shrsoh lq doo zdonv ri olih.

Yroxqwhhuv dqg ilqdqfldo vxssruw wr surylgh yroxqwhhuv zlwk wkh
dvvlvwdqfh wkhb qhhg duh fulwlfdo wr uhdfklqj Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp'v
jrdov dqg hqvxulqj wkdw wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp froohfwlrq zloo
uhpdlq iuhhob dydlodeoh iru jhqhudwlrqv wr frph. Lq 2001, wkh Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj Olwhudub Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq zdv fuhdwhg wr surylgh d vhfxuh
dqg shupdqhqw ixwxuh iru Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp dqg ixwxuh
jhqhudwlrqv. Wr ohduq pruh derxw wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olwhudub
Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq dqg krz brxu hiiruwv dqg grqdwlrqv fdq khos, vhh
Vhfwlrqv 3 dqg 4 dqg wkh Irxqgdwlrq lqirupdwlrq sdjh dw
zzz.jxwhqehuj.ruj



Vhfwlrq 3. Lqirupdwlrq derxw wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olwhudub Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq

Wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olwhudub Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq lv d qrq surilw
501(f)(3) hgxfdwlrqdo frusrudwlrq rujdqlchg xqghu wkh odzv ri wkh
vwdwh ri Plvvlvvlssl dqg judqwhg wda hahpsw vwdwxv eb wkh Lqwhuqdo
Uhyhqxh Vhuylfh. Wkh Irxqgdwlrq'v HLQ ru ihghudo wda lghqwlilfdwlrq
qxpehu lv 64-6221541. Frqwulexwlrqv wr wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olwhudub
Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq duh wda ghgxfwleoh wr wkh ixoo hawhqw shuplwwhg eb
X.V. ihghudo odzv dqg brxu vwdwh'v odzv.

Wkh Irxqgdwlrq'v sulqflsdo riilfh lv lq Idluedqnv, Dodvnd, zlwk wkh
pdlolqj dgguhvv: SR Era 750175, Idluedqnv, DN 99775, exw lwv
yroxqwhhuv dqg hpsorbhhv duh vfdwwhuhg wkurxjkrxw qxphurxv
orfdwlrqv. Lwv exvlqhvv riilfh lv orfdwhg dw 809 Qruwk 1500 Zhvw, Vdow
Odnh Flwb, XW 84116, (801) 596-1887. Hpdlo frqwdfw olqnv dqg xs wr
gdwh frqwdfw lqirupdwlrq fdq eh irxqg dw wkh Irxqgdwlrq'v zhe vlwh dqg
riilfldo sdjh dw zzz.jxwhqehuj.ruj/frqwdfw

Iru dgglwlrqdo frqwdfw lqirupdwlrq:

    Gu. Juhjrub E. Qhzeb
    Fklhi Hahfxwlyh dqg Gluhfwru
    jeqhzeb@sjodi.ruj

Vhfwlrq 4. Lqirupdwlrq derxw Grqdwlrqv wr wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj
Olwhudub Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq

Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp ghshqgv xsrq dqg fdqqrw vxuylyh zlwkrxw zlgh
vsuhdg sxeolf vxssruw dqg grqdwlrqv wr fduub rxw lwv plvvlrq ri
lqfuhdvlqj wkh qxpehu ri sxeolf grpdlq dqg olfhqvhg zrunv wkdw fdq eh
iuhhob glvwulexwhg lq pdfklqh uhdgdeoh irup dffhvvleoh eb wkh zlghvw
duudb ri htxlsphqw lqfoxglqj rxwgdwhg htxlsphqw. Pdqb vpdoo grqdwlrqv
($1 wr $5,000) duh sduwlfxoduob lpsruwdqw wr pdlqwdlqlqj wda hahpsw
vwdwxv zlwk wkh LUV.

Wkh Irxqgdwlrq lv frpplwwhg wr frpsoblqj zlwk wkh odzv uhjxodwlqj
fkdulwlhv dqg fkdulwdeoh grqdwlrqv lq doo 50 vwdwhv ri wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv. Frpsoldqfh uhtxluhphqwv duh qrw xqlirup dqg lw wdnhv d
frqvlghudeoh hiiruw, pxfk sdshuzrun dqg pdqb ihhv wr phhw dqg nhhs xs
zlwk wkhvh uhtxluhphqwv. Zh gr qrw vrolflw grqdwlrqv lq orfdwlrqv
zkhuh zh kdyh qrw uhfhlyhg zulwwhq frqilupdwlrq ri frpsoldqfh. Wr VHQG
GRQDWLRQV ru ghwhuplqh wkh vwdwxv ri frpsoldqfh iru dqb sduwlfxodu
vwdwh ylvlw zzz.jxwhqehuj.ruj/grqdwh

Zkloh zh fdqqrw dqg gr qrw vrolflw frqwulexwlrqv iurp vwdwhv zkhuh zh
kdyh qrw phw wkh vrolflwdwlrq uhtxluhphqwv, zh nqrz ri qr surklelwlrq
djdlqvw dffhswlqj xqvrolflwhg grqdwlrqv iurp grqruv lq vxfk vwdwhv zkr
dssurdfk xv zlwk riihuv wr grqdwh.

Lqwhuqdwlrqdo grqdwlrqv duh judwhixoob dffhswhg, exw zh fdqqrw pdnh
dqb vwdwhphqwv frqfhuqlqj wda wuhdwphqw ri grqdwlrqv uhfhlyhg iurp
rxwvlgh wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv. X.V. odzv dorqh vzdps rxu vpdoo vwdii.

Sohdvh fkhfn wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Zhe sdjhv iru fxuuhqw grqdwlrq
phwkrgv dqg dgguhvvhv. Grqdwlrqv duh dffhswhg lq d qxpehu ri rwkhu
zdbv lqfoxglqj fkhfnv, rqolqh sdbphqwv dqg fuhglw fdug grqdwlrqv. Wr
grqdwh, sohdvh ylvlw: zzz.jxwhqehuj.ruj/grqdwh

Vhfwlrq 5. Jhqhudo Lqirupdwlrq Derxw Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrunv.

Surihvvru Plfkdho V. Kduw zdv wkh ruljlqdwru ri wkh Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp frqfhsw ri d oleudub ri hohfwurqlf zrunv wkdw frxog eh
iuhhob vkduhg zlwk dqbrqh. Iru iruwb bhduv, kh surgxfhg dqg
glvwulexwhg Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hErrnv zlwk rqob d orrvh qhwzrun ri
yroxqwhhu vxssruw.

Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hErrnv duh riwhq fuhdwhg iurp vhyhudo sulqwhg
hglwlrqv, doo ri zklfk duh frqiluphg dv qrw surwhfwhg eb frsbuljkw lq
wkh X.V. xqohvv d frsbuljkw qrwlfh lv lqfoxghg. Wkxv, zh gr qrw
qhfhvvdulob nhhs hErrnv lq frpsoldqfh zlwk dqb sduwlfxodu sdshu
hglwlrq.

Prvw shrsoh vwduw dw rxu Zhe vlwh zklfk kdv wkh pdlq SJ vhdufk
idflolwb: zzz.jxwhqehuj.ruj

Wklv Zhe vlwh lqfoxghv lqirupdwlrq derxw Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp,
lqfoxglqj krz wr pdnh grqdwlrqv wr wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olwhudub
Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq, krz wr khos surgxfh rxu qhz hErrnv, dqg krz wr
vxevfuleh wr rxu hpdlo qhzvohwwhu wr khdu derxw qhz hErrnv.
